KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia logged another 21,072 Covid-19 infections as of noon today.  Health director-general Tan Sri Dr Noor Hisham Abdullah said of the fresh cases recorded today, 86 (or 0.41 per cent) were in Categories 3, 4 and 5.  In Category 5, there were eight cases (0.04 per cent); Category 4 with 20 cases (0.09 per cent), and Category 3 with 58 (0.28per cent).  Category 1 recorded 5,995 cases (28.45 per cent), while Category 2 recorded 14,991 (71.14 per cent), as both categories registered 99.59 per cent of today's total case load.  The country to date has reported a total of 3,040,235 Covid-19 cases since the pandemic struck in 2020.  Dr Noor Hisham 21,007 cases today were local transmissions while the remaining 65 cases were imported.  He added that currently 187 individuals were receiving treatment at intensive care units (ICU) and 109 cases were on ventilator support.  Dr Noor Hisham said the Health Ministry had also detected the emergence of 10 new Covid-19 clusters over the past 24 hours, making it 421 active Covid-19 clusters nationwide.  Meanwhile, Dr Noor Hisham said 5,724 more individuals had recovered from their Covid-19 infection today.  At the same time, the nationwide infectivity rate stood at 1.49 as of Saturday.  Labuan recorded the highest with 2.14, followed by Sarawak (1.67), Sabah (1.66), Perlis (1.47), Penang (1.46), Johor (1.40), Pahang (1.38), Kelantan and Selangor (1.37), Terengganu and Kedah (1.35), Putrajaya (1.34), Negri Sembilan (1.31), Melaka (1.28), Perak (1.27) and Kuala Lumpur (1.22). 

KUALA LUMPUR: The number of Covid-19 deaths continued to climb today with 43 fatalities recorded. This was an increase from the 19 deaths recorded yesterday and 29 deaths recorded on Sunday. The Health Ministry's CovidNow portal said with the latest figures, the country's Covid-19 death toll currently stood at 31,135. Out of the total deaths reported today, eight are brought-in dead (BID) cases, bringing the overall tally to 6,294. Penang reported the highest number of Covid-19 fatalities at 10 followed by Johor (six), Kedah (five), four in Kelantan, Sabah and Terengganu each, Selangor (three), Pahang (two) and one in Melaka, Negri Sembilan, Perlis, Kuala Lumpur and Putrajaya respectively. No new Covid-19 deaths were recorded in Labuan, Sarawak and Perak. There are currently 52,218 active Covid-19 cases in the country. Of the total, 44,201 people are placed under home quarantine, 3,872 individuals at Low-Risk Covid-19 Quarantine and Treatment Centres (PKRC); and 3,766 patients are hospitalised. A total of 169 patients are currently being treated at intensive care units (ICU) with 210 of them requiring ventilator support. Yesterday, Malaysia reported 3,810 recoveries over a span of 24 hours, compared to the 2,589 infections logged on Sunday. Health director-general Tan Sri Dr Noor Hisham Abdullah said the recoveries and new cases bring the respective tallies to 2,638,191 and 2,721,544 respectively. On vaccinations, the CovidNow portal reported that 97.5 per cent of the adult population or 22,817,909 individuals have completed their Covid-19 vaccination as of Monday. A total of 23,123,189 individuals or 98.8 per cent of adults have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Under the adolescent category aged between 12 and 17, 86.9 per cent or 2,736,688 individuals have completed the vaccination while 2,834,774 individuals or 90 per cent have received at least one dose of the vaccine. 

TERENGGANU coach Nafuzi Zain hopes this year's AFC Cup will not be cancelled. The Asian Football Confederation (AFC) will decide later this week whether to cancel or hold the tournament as they have yet to secure venues for Group G, H and I. 'We are now preparing for the challenge. Hopefully, it will not be cancelled as the players are excited to play against the top teams in this region.  'My players are mentally and physically prepared for the challenge. 'We want to use this tournament to expose our youngsters.' Terengganu qualified for the AFC Cup by finishing third in last season's Super League. 'We have registered several up-and-coming players from our reserve team for the tournament.'  Terengganu are second in the Super League with 27 points from 13 matches, with Johor Darul Ta'zim at the top on 30. 

SPAOH, Dec 5 — Bukit Saban incumbent Datuk Amar Douglas Uggah will be defending the Parti Pesaka Bumiputera Bersatu (PBB) seat for Gabungan Parti Sarawak (GPS) in the 12th state election. The PBB deputy president also said he was happy to see the party's veteran elected representatives giving way to the green horns in the upcoming polls. He extended his appreciation to these veterans who had decided to voluntarily step down as a means to groom the younger candidates to be the future leaders of Sarawak. 'We are really appreciative of your (veterans') services to the state and nation. The current senior members who are still contesting, I believe they too will step down when they feel their time is due. 'This is part of the growing process for the party. We need to groom new leaders to face an even more challenging world,' he said at a function here yesterday. Uggah said the younger candidates must be given the opportunity to gain experiences such as learning to make vital decisions in dealing with crises along the way. He also said the younger the candidates were, the more exposed to technology they would be. 'The new crop of leaders, they are technology-savvy too.' GPS chairman Datuk Patinggi Tan Sri Abang Johari Tun Openg had announced on Friday that the coalition would be fielding 24 new face in the coming polls. The Satok incumbent, who would be moving to Gedong, said the new faces of GPS comprised young people in their 30s and 40s. 

SEGAMAT, Jan 4 — The government has approved an allocation of RM5 million to upgrade the bund in Kampung Spang Loi near here to overcome the flood woes in the village and its surrounding areas. Prime Minister Datuk Seri Ismail Sabri Yaakob said the upgrading of the bund was urgently needed to prevent the areas from being flooded again in the future. 'Today, I was briefed by the Department of Irrigation and Drainage (DID) that if we want to prevent future flooding in Segamat, we have to have higher bund walls. 'There is an urgent need. So today, I have approved RM5 million for the purpose,' he told reporters after visiting flood evacuees at the temporary relief centre at Kampung Tandong, Buloh Kasap, here today. Last Sunday, the bund which was built in 2019 burst and caused Kampung Spang Loi and other surrounding villages to be inundated by overflowing waters from the Muar river. During the visit, Ismail Sabri also presented compassionate aid of RM1,500 each comprising RM1,000 from the federal government and RM500 from the state government to 26 heads of households taking shelter at the relief centres. 

PONTIAN: Johor Barisan Nasional chairman, Datuk Hasni Mohammad is entering a four-cornered fight at the Benut state seat in the March 12 state polls. The caretaker Johor Menteri Besar, who is the state Umno liaison committee chairman and the seat's incumbent for the past three terms, will contest against Perikatan Nasional candidate Senator Datuk Isa Abd Hamid, Parti Pejuang Tanah Air candidate Iskandar Noor Ibrahim and PKR candidate Haniff@Ghazali Hosman. Isa is a senator appointed to represent the Orang Asli community in Dewan Negara. All four candidates arrived at the nomination centre at Dewan Serbaguna Benut prior to the start of the nomination process which ran from 9am to 10am today. The Benut state seat returning officer is  Mohd Rafi Abdullah. During the 14th General Election, Hasni had won the seat after he garnered 9,480 votes as compared to PKR candidate Zulkifly Tasrep, who obtained 5,033 votes and Pas candidate Mohd Firdaus Jaafar who obtained 2,590 votes. Hasni won the seat with a 4,447-vote majority. The Election Commission has fixed the Johor election for March 12, with early voting set for March 8. On Jan 22, the Sultan of Johor Sultan Ibrahim Sultan Iskandar had consented to and signed the letter for the dissolution of the state assembly, which had paved the way for the state election. The Johor government had a thin majority of 28 seats against 27 seats held by the opposition block in the 56-seat legislature following the death of Kempas assemblyman Datuk Osman Sapian on Dec 21. 

KUCHING, Dec 3 — The four-party Gabungan Parti Sarawak (GPS) coalition today announced the names of its 82 candidates for the 82 seats in the coming 12th state election with a few surprises. Nearly 30 per cent of the candidates, or 24 people, are first timers for the state election. Among them is Azizul Annuar, the son of the late Tan Sri Adenan Satem who was the former chief minister, for Tanjung Datu. Other state election newbies include Kuching City South Council Mayor Datuk Wee Hong Seng in Padungan, Miri City Council Mayor Adam Yii in Pujut, and Progessive Democratic Party (PDP) president Datuk Seri Tiong King Sing in Dudong. Tiong is already Bintulu MP but this is his first time running for a state seat. Newcomer Nicholas Kudi will run for Baleh, which was the stronghold of former deputy chief minister Tan Sri James Masing who died on October 31 after contracting Covid-19. GPS chairman Tan Sri Abang Johari Openg will not be defending his urban seat in Satok this time. Instead, he has chosen to run in rural Gedong, replacing incumbent Datuk Naroden Majais who declined to seek re-election. Abang Johari's place in Satok is taken over by businessman and Satok PBB branch deputy chairman Datuk Ibrahim Baki. Sarawak United People's Party (SUPP) president Datuk Sri Dr Sim Kui Hian will defend his Batu Kawah seat and secretary-general Datuk Sebastian Ting will remain in Piasau. PBB deputy president and Deputy Chief Minister Datuk Douglas Uggah will defend his Bukit Saban seat. Likewise, another Deputy Chief Minister Datuk Awang Tengah Ali Hasan will defend his Bukit Sari seat. GPS will also be fielding four women candidates, including newcomer Dayang Noorazah Awang Sohor in Lingga. Abang Johari said the main criterion for the candidates were their loyalty. 'It is very important,' he added. 'A number of our new faces are in their 30s and 40s because we believe that we can train and then expose them to Sarawak-style politics which fights for all the communities, religions and cultures,' he said. 'The youth candidates consist of different backgrounds and professions, and they will guarantee continuity for Sarawak.' Abang Johari said GPS is using the theme 'Sarawak First' for this election as he believes that only Sarawakians know the state's political landscape. He said GPS will also be stressing on the digital economy, sustainability and environment in the election. He said GPS will disclose its election manifesto on December 8, two days after nomination day on December 6. Polling day is on December 18. 

DENGKIL, Dec 26 — The company wholly owned by the Selangor State Development Corporation (PKNS), Worldwide Holdings Bhd as the operator of the Dengkil Inert Waste Landfill recorded a three-fold increase in post-flood waste. Speaking to Bernama recently, its Operations engineer Azimie Zakaria said the amount of waste rose from the usual 500 tonnes daily to 1,500 tonnes. 'We (Dengkil Inert Waste Landfill) receive inert waste such as bulk, garden and construction waste and now household items damaged by floods,' he said. To ensure the smooth process of post-flood waste management, he said the operating hours at the 145-acre landfill, which was opened in 2004, had been extended by five more hours from 8 am to 11 pm. 'We hope to speed up the process to clear the trash piled up on roadsides and in makeshift dumps in residential areas,' he said. Azimie said most of the waste trucks were three-tonne Roro vehicles operated daily by Sepang branch KDEB Waste Management Sdn Bhd (KDEB) cleaning workers. 'For residential areas, workers will collect all types of damaged items. It is quite difficult to use machines like backhoe because it will block the entry and exit of the residents,' he said. A Roro truck would make five trips daily from a residential area to the landfill, he added. 'Before the floods, 200 to 300 Roro lorries entered the landfill per day, but now the number can reach up to 400 a day. On average, one lorry can only carry flood waste from one house,' he said. Azimie said the operating costs were expected to increase by 40 per cent due to the extended operating hours. Azimie said the waste would be sorted to separate out materials which could be recycled to reduce the amount of rubbish that needed to be disposed of. 'This rubbish will then be compressed using machinery such as a backhoe. After that, it will be covered with red soil to avoid vector insects and odours,' he said. Meanwhile, Sepang branch KDEB chief of Operations Ahmad Fauzan Hushim said the company's routine cleaning task had been temporarily halted to ensure that the damaged items could be brought to the landfill immediately. He said the company made full use of its assets, namely 34 three-tonne Roro lorries and 136 cleaning workers. Therefore, he asked every resident to be patient and gave assurance that the company would speed up the cleaning work 

KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 20 — Parti Warisan president Datuk Seri Shafie Apdal today took a swipe at the federal government over its failure to revise the country's flood management template regularly. During the Special Meeting of the Fourth Term of the 14th Parliament Session for the Dewan Rakyat today, Shafie stressed that climate change is real and Malaysia needs to step up its game in response. The sitting was called to discuss post-flood efforts, coordination of aid to the public and long-term flood mitigation planning. 'Climate change is real. Flood issues in Malaysia are not new. They have been around for ages, but what we continue to see is the government's failure at managing it. 'The recent flood tragedy showed every politician fighting over who was responsible. To me, the prime minister should step up and take charge of the loss of 27 lives. 'You are the 'CEO' of the country. You have the power to call all ministers for discussions. Don't wait until 50 more lives are claimed. Shafie went on to chide the government over the fact it was the people, NGOs and volunteers who came forward to help without any financial assistance at all. 'We spent billions on all the ministries, but at the end of the day, it was the people who helped each other. Where did we go wrong?  'This government has failed. Not only financially, but also when it comes to the loss of its people.  'Let's not be in denial. The country is not going down the drain. We are already in it... unemployment, poverty and the death rate,' he said. 

KUALA LUMPUR: More than 700,000 children between the age of five and 11 in Malaysia have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.  Data obtained from the CovidNow portal showed as of yesterday, a total of 751,928 or 21.2 per cent of children received the Covid-19 vaccine through the Covid-19 National Children's Immunisation Programme (PICKids).  Based on the website's data, 14,453,640 or 61.4 per cent of the adult population in the country have received the booster dose and 22,947,671 or 97.5 per cent have completed the two doses while 23,227,035 or 98.7 per cent received at least one dose to date. Whereas for the adolescent group aged 12 to 17 years old, 2,800,143 or 90 per cent of the group have completed their vaccinations, while 2,892,596 or 93 per cent have received their first dose. Yesterday, the Health Ministry provided 132,371 doses, comprising 44,992 first dose, 948-second dose and 86,431 booster doses, taking the cumulative inoculations to 66,865,787, under the ministry's Covid-19 National Immunisation Programme.  There were 57 deaths reported due to Covid-19 yesterday. Fourteen of it occurred in Johor, eight in Sabah, Perak (six), five cases each in Kedah, Melaka and Selangor, three cases in  Pahang and Terengganu, two cases each in Perlis and Kuala Lumpur while one case in Kelantan, Negri Sembilan, Penang and Sarawak. 

ALOR GAJAH, Dec 5 — The government's move to allow the import of frozen whole chicken is expected to be able to help reduce the prices of the item in the market, said Ministry of Domestic Trade and Consumer Affairs (KPDNHEP) secretary-general Datuk Seri Hasnol Zam Zam Ahmad. He said the action was expected to result in excess of supply in the local market, but at the same time other factors also influenced the domestic prices including the prices of the frozen chicken fixed by the producing countries. 'Normally, the prices will drop slightly when there is more supply in the market but we have to see first the effect of the import of the frozen whole chicken on the market offering in this country. 'And if the prices (of frozen whole chicken) from the source countries are far lower from the prices offered in the country, maybe the prices which the traders can offer are also low. 'But we have yet to obtain information on the matter because it is handled by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries (MAFI),' he said after a visit to the Malaysian Family Sales Programme (PJKM) here today. Hasnol Zam Zam was commenting on the announcement of MAFI on the government's permission to import frozen whole chicken for a three-month period from this month until February 2022. He said KPDNHEP was also reviewing the maximum price of standard chicken for retail sale (RM9.30 a kilogramme) and wholesale (RM8 a kilogramme), in the future if the prices of chicken in the country's market returned to normal. 'That we will review just like the other items too. For example, facemasks, which, despite setting a RM0.70 ceiling price, the prices have dropped lower than that, following many offers including from abroad,' he said. In another development, he said PJKM would be expanded more widely and its organisation would be extended after next February if there is a high need or demand from the people. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Feb 17 — Malaysia will develop the National Robotics Roadmap (NRR) in an effort to lift robotics technology into mainstream usage to boost national productivity, said Prime Minister Datuk Seri Ismail Sabri Yaakob. He said the roadmap could help to reduce dependence on foreign manpower and minimise the outflow of foreign exchange. Under the plan, the government is targeting to increase the intensity of robot usage from 55 units per 10,000 workers in 2019 to 195 units per 10,000 workers by 2030, he said in a statement here today. Ismail Sabri said the proposed roadmap was among the decisions reached at a meeting of the National Digital Economy and Fourth Industrial Revolution Council, which was its first for this year. The meeting, attended virtually by the relevant ministers and heads of departments and agencies, also endorsed the Catalytic Projects concept to drive the MyDIGITAL Aspiration. Towards this end, the prime minister said, the meeting agreed to set up the MyDIGITAL Catalytic Projects Task Force to select suitable projects and monitor their implementation via the public-private partnership model. He said the Catalytic Projects would be financed by the private sector and the government would play the role of a facilitator. He said the projects to be implemented under this concept include smart medicine targeting the setting up of hospitals using 5G technology and Smart City. Ismail Sabri said the meeting was also briefed on the progress of the National Digital Network Plan (Jendela), where from September 2020 to December 2021 a total of 1.89 million new premises came under fibre optics coverage and 1,189 new 4G towers were built. During the same period, 95 per cent of populated areas were given 4G coverage, he said. 

ALOR STAR: Amran Hassan, (not his real name) from Sik district, has made up his mind not to get the Covid-19 booster shot.   The 56-year-old diabetic feared for his life after reading a viral message about a man from Selangor who died of a heart attack after taking a booster shot last month.  In Sungai Petani, a housewife who only wished to be identified as Nur, is not keen to register her two children aged six and eight for the National Immunisation Programme for Children (PICKids).  'I read somewhere on social media that the vaccines may alter the children's genetics. So, I decided that it is better to let other children get their jabs first and we will see from there,' she said.  Their sentiment reflects the people's tendency to believe unverified information circulating on social media, regardless of whether they stay in the rural or urban areas.   Associate Professor Dr Malina Osman, an epidemiologist and biostatistician at Universiti Putra Malaysia, said the public were exposed to contents circulating on social media platforms, including viral videos or unverified information.  'Our people should be wise enough to seek out verified information for their own sake.  'Most of social media users tend to share unverified information, simply believing everything that is said by popular individuals or public figures, being bias towards the Health Ministry after being influenced by fake information, besides failing to analyse statistic at community level,' she told the New Straits Times (NST).   Citing an example, Dr Malina said there was misunderstanding among parents that Moderna mRNA vaccine might alter children's genetics.  'They are assuming that the mRNA vaccine is similar to genes treatment, which is completely unfounded and against scientific facts,' she said.  Dr Malina added that based on her observation, many of those who had completed their primer vaccination jabs decided to let the others to get the booster shot.  She said those who developed adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) such as high fever and other side effects after taking the primer jabs were among those reluctant to get the booster shot.   'Many of them are wary of possible side effects of the booster shot and this is particularly evident among those who received Sinovac as primer vaccines,' she said.  Dr Malina added that the low take up rate of booster shot among senior citizens could also be due to their limited knowledge in managing MySejahtera mobile application, resulting in some of them missing their appointment date.  To counter misinformation being spread on social media, Dr Malina proposed for medical experts and paediatric specialists to be given a prominent space on the media.  'Those who are really fighting the battle against Covid-19 should be given the widest space, together with the Health Minister and Health director-general to explain issues from time to time.  'We should not be giving attention to those who have no experience in handling patients especially on the field and in the ICU (Intensive Care Unit),' she said.  She also said the people should return to the fundamentals of life by having faith on the experts based on their respective fields.   'If a Mufti has the authority in Islamic fatwa or a building engineer has the authority to declare a building is safe, then only the doctors who are attending to Covid-19 patients should be trusted,' she said.  Kedah Health Committee chairman Datuk Dr Mohd Hayati Othman concurred, adding that people should verify facts with medical experts instead of blindly believing unverified information being circulated on social media.  'I refer to the viral message about a man who suddenly had a heart attack and died after taking his booster shot.  'Some people believed it was something that was unquestionably true, although it was later confirmed by the authorities and even the deceased family that the man had a history of heart ailment,' he said when contacted.  Dr Hayati said the people should not risk their life by refusing booster shot or vaccination for their children, by failing to verify whatever information they receive from unknown sources.   He explained that it was crucial for eligible adults to get the booster shot as their immunity level against Covid-19 declined between three and six months after receiving the primer vaccines.   As of Wednesday, nearly 630,000 or 40 per cent of adult population in Kedah have received their booster shot, compared to 1.37 million who had completed their primer vaccination.   Meanwhile, Kedah Health director Dr Othman Warijo told NST that up to Tuesday, 51,152 children aged below 12 years had registered for PICKids in the state.  He said 270,000 children below 12 years old had been infected by Covid-19 between July and December 2021 nationwide.  'There were 63 fatalities involving children and 174 cases of Multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) were reported in Malaysia.   'We are also worried over the risk of Long Covid Syndrome among children after contracting Covid-19, should they did not get the vaccines,' he said.  It was estimated there were 215,500 children aged five to 11 in the state.  'On daily basis 2,109 vaccine shots are administered to the children and to date, 11,187 kids have been vaccinated since the program started in the state last week,' he said, urging more parents to register their children for the PICKids programme. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Members of the press are currently gathered at the National Heart Institute (IJN) to get the latest update on former premier Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad's condition.  It is claimed that Dr Mahathir is currently warded at the hospital's Coronary Care Unit (CCU).  The IJN said that it would issue a statement on Dr Mahathir's condition soon.  Earlier this month, the JN said in a statement that the former prime minister was admitted to the hospital for an elective medical procedure.  On Dec 16, 2021, Dr Mahathir was admitted to IJN for a full medical check-up and further observation. He was discharged on Dec 22.  The Langkawi member of parliament had previously undergone two heart bypass operations in 1989 and 2007. 

KUCHING, Dec 27 — The Sarawak Fire and Rescue Department has identified 345 flood-prone areas in the state, its director Datuk Khirudin Drahman said. He said the department is prepared to face the disaster and has mobilised around 1,400 auxiliary personnel and 257 auxiliary officers in light of the monsoonal surge. 'Besides flood-prone areas, the department has also identified 77 locations where landslides might occur following continuous heavy rain, mostly in Sri Aman and Sibu,' he told Bernama today. The Malaysian Meteorological Department (MetMalaysia) issued a continuous rain forecast last week for east Johor, east Sabah and west Sarawak from today till Thursday due to a monsoonal surge. Khirudin added that the department has frozen leave for personnel and officers as well as prepared logistics equipment for land, air and sea operations that can be mobilised immediately to ensure operations can be conducted smoothly. 'From a logistics standpoint, the Sarawak Fire and Rescue Department has 16 lorries, 67 four-wheel drives, 37 rescue boats, one helicopter and 18 Emergency Medical Response Service (EMRS) vehicles and has prepared 38 helicopter landing areas in 22 districts for the implementation of flood evacuations, aid deliveries or emergencies,' he said. Checks by Bernama today in several areas around Kuching city as of 4.30 pm found that it was rather cloudy and rain was expected to fall during the night. Khirudin also advised the public to stay vigilant and to be aware of river water levels and rainfall in their residential areas and to immediately notify the fire department if they require assistanc 

KAJANG: As the bright sun came out in full force, residents and business proprietors in Pekan Batu 11, were spotted cleaning the trail of debris left behind by the devastating weekend floods. A check by the New Straits Times found that many were shovelling and cleaning the mud-coated floors of their premises. Many were also trying to salvage their goods which had been submerged in floodwaters, cleaning and putting them out to dry. Mounds of rubbish, discarded items coated with mud and debris were also piled up outside each business premises. The surrounding roads in Pekan Batu 11 were not spared from the floods, as receding waters not only left layers of mud and debris but also damaged roads. Heavy rain and floods since last Friday wreaked havoc in several states in peninsular Malaysia, causing thousands to be stranded on roads, and trapping others in their homes. In Selangor, a total of 2,044 displaced people are at 162 temporary shelters in nine districts statewide as of 10am. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Dec 2 — Section 3 (a) and (b) of the Constitution (Amendment) Act 2019 regarding the lowering of the voting age to 18 years and automatic voter registration were gazetted on Dec 1. Election Commission (EC) secretary Datuk Ikmalrudin Ishak said the amendments would come into force on Dec 15 after obtaining the consent of Yang di-Pertuan Agong Al-Sultan Abdullah Ri'ayatuddin Al-Mustafa Billah Shah. He said amendments to the subsidiary laws related to the elections namely Elections (Registration of Voters) (Amendment) Regulations 2021 and the Elections (Conduct of Elections) (Amendment) Regulations 2021 were gazetted on Nov 30.  'The amendments will come into force on Dec 15 after receiving the royal assent from the Yang di-Pertuan Agong based on Section 17 of the Elections Act 1958,' he said in a statement today. As such, the EC will table the two amendments to the regulations in the Second Meeting of the Fourth Term of the 14th Parliament soon. Section 3 of the Constitution (Amendment) Act 2019 states the amendment to set the minimum voting age to 18 from the current 21, and allow for automatic voter registration to replace the current system which requires Malaysians to apply to register as voters.  The proposed amendments were approved at the second meeting of the second term of the 14th Parliament in July 2019, but were not implemented then. On Sept 7, Minister in the Prime Minister's Department (Parliament and Law), Datuk Seri Dr Wan Junaidi Tuanku Jaafar ordered the EC to implement Undi18 by Dec 31, to comply with the decision of the Kuching High Court On Sept 6, the Kuching High Court in Sarawak ordered the EC and the government to implement Undi18 by Dec 31. 

KUALA LUMPUR: 'Don't insult the intelligence of Malaysians.' That was the advice issued by Parti Pribumi Bersatu Malaysia (Bersatu) president Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin to those who likened the 5G network mega-project by Digital Nasional Berhad (DNB) with 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB). The former prime minister said he was surprised when certain quarters tried to defend the 1MDB scandal by associating it with DNB. 'Please, don't insult the intelligence of Malaysians. '1MDB is one of the largest fraud schemes in the history of the world with billions of ringgit being transferred to dubious accounts offshore and disappeared. 'Unfortunately, a total of RM2.6 billion went into the 'Malaysian Official 1' account. 'DNB on the other hand has a clear governance structure and is managed by professionals. 'The funds are used for the construction of infrastructure projects by reputable companies and the prime minister is not a powerful adviser in DNB,' he said in his speech at the Bersatu's fourth general assembly, here. Muhyiddin said in stimulating future economic growth, especially in the field of digital economy, the government should accelerate the country's digitalisation plan, including the implementation of a comprehensive 5G network in the country. 'Our rollout of 5G has been a bit late, as telcos have different priorities as they are interested in providing 5G services in densely populated areas. '(And) because of that, the government has decided to set up DNB, which is wholly owned by the government to accelerate the roll-out of 5G nationwide to offer the services at low prices to the people including in rural areas. 'As such, there should be no party who deliberately wants to delay the rolling out of 5G by politicising the DNB issue.' Muhyiddin said he hoped that the government would continue to roll out 5G on a single wholesale network model as planned. 'The government should not be bothered by the actions of certain parties who are trying to thwart the implementation of the strategic project, which aims to support the growth of the country's digital economy and will provide cheaper 5G services to the people.' He added that the implementation of the project would also benefit Bumiputera companies, where 60 per cent of the network infrastructure expenditure would be given to them.  'At the same time, in line with good governance, the aspects of transparency and accountability in the management of DNB also need to be given attention by board members, who were appointed to represent the interests of the government.' 

KUCHING: The failure of DAP to perform during the 22-month Pakatan Harapan (PH) federal rule was the main factor that saw a poor outing for the party in the 12th Sarawak election, which concluded last night. DAP only won two out of the 26 seats it contested. It also lost five seats to Gabungan Parti Sarawak (GPS). Professor James Chin from the University of Tasmania's Asia Institute said the Sarawak election results showed that the people were very angry at DAP as the party didn't do much for the state when it was in power. He said when PH won the 14th General Election (GE14) in 2018, the people had high expectations and were expecting Sarawak DAP Chairman Chong Chieng Jen, who is also the state PH chairman, to be appointed as a full minister. This was also a promise made by DAP secretary-general Lim Guan Eng during the campaign period. 'But, Chong ended up as a deputy minister with very little power and failed to deliver for Sarawak, especially when it came to the interest of the Chinese community (who had supported DAP),' he told the New Straits Times. 'The people were fed up and wanted to punish DAP, which resulted in their poor performance,' he said. He also opined that people had begun to dislike Chong's personality, who was seen as a very oppressive character. He said there was also a group of Chinese voters who were disappointed that DAP was so hard-headed that they couldn't come up with a deal with PSB – and split the oppositions' votes – which they blamed the DAP for. 'Another factor that went against the Pakatan Harapan in Sarawak was the rise of local-based parties like Parti Sarawak Bersatu (PSB) and Parti Bumi Kenyalang (PBK). 'There was a strong sense of Sarawak nationalism, which also plays an important role. DAP and PKR couldn't get rid of the fact that they are (Peninsula) Malaya-based parties. 'DAP needs to do a lot of soul-searching to regain the support of the Chinese voters in the next election,' he said. Chin said there is also a need to look at the DAP leadership structure in Sarawak. Chong won Padungan and defeated his heavyweight opponent GPS candidate Datuk Wee Hong Seng, who is also the Kuching South City Council (MBKS) mayor. Violet Yong retained her Pending seat, with a slim majority of 540 votes when she polled 5,188 votes in a five-cornered fight. The DAP lost five seats that they previously won, namely, Kota Sentosa, Bukit Assek, Pelawan, Tanjung Batu and Pujut while their coalition partners; PKR and Amanah didn't win any seats. In 2016, DAP only retained seven seats out of the 12 it previously won in 2011. It subsequently lost another two seats after its Pujut assemblyman was disqualified and its Padungan assemblyman Wong King Wei quit the party last year to become an independent. Chong shifted from his Kota Sentosa seat to Padungan as he needed to 'answer the constituents' after Wong, who won the seat under a DAP ticket, decided to quit the party. Meanwhile, Universiti Malaya's Professor Dr Awang Azman Awang Pawi said PH's failure to deliver to Sarawak was the reason DAP was almost totally wiped out in the state polls. He said many were expecting new changes when DAP was in power (at the federal level) but they were left disappointed after the party failed to fulfil their promises made in GE14. 'Apart from that, the people, including their Chinese supporters were angry and could not accept the former Finance Minister Lim's (Guan Eng) remark, saying Sarawak will go bankrupt in three years,' he said. 'So, Dap needs to be realistic and careful in playing on issues in Sarawak, and not to be seen as trying to bring the political culture from the peninsula here. They need to re-brand their politics to fit the mold with the local political culture,' he added. Awang Azman said DAP needed to conduct a detailed post-mortem before making any major political move or decision. He added that they also needed to review various aspects of the party, including leadership grooming. 

PONTIAN: Menteri Besar Datuk Hasni Mohammad has hinted that he will defend the Benut State Assembly seat in the Johor State Election.  The Johor Umno Liaison Committee Chairman said he wanted to retain the N53 seat.  'If I can and given the opportunity, I want to contest in Benut again,' he said at a press conference after presenting the Chinese New Year contribution at the Benut state assembly here today.  Benut is one of the two-state assembly seats which comes under the Pontian Parliament, apart from the Pulai Sebatang state seat.  Hasni has been the incumbent of the Benut state seat for three terms since the 12th General Election (GE12) in 2008.  In GE14, Hasni defeated Parti Pribumi Bersatu Malaysia (Bersatu) candidates Zulkifly Tasrep and Mohd Firdaus Jaafar (PAS) with a majority of 4,447 votes.  Asked of reports that the younger brother of the Selangor Menteri Besar, Datuk Seri Amirudin Shari, was among the candidates mentioned that are likely to contest in the Benut state seat in the state election, Hasni just smiled.  'The more people, the more lively,' he said.  It was reported earlier today that Aziz Shari, 33, who is also the Pontian PKR Angkatan Muda Keadilan chief, will likely contest the Benut seat. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 26 — Despite having expanded to the peninsula, Parti Warisan Sabah (Warisan) will not be working with the Pakatan Harapan (PH) coalition for the coming Johor state election, its president Datuk Seri Mohd Shafie Apdal said today. The Semporna MP said that Warisan — which started in Sabah — is focused on strengthening its base providing Malaysians an alternative to the current political parties, news portal The Vibes reported. Shafie also said he had worked with parties on both sides of the political divide to improve Malaysia's fortunes, but found it didn't work. 'I have already worked with all of them. But when I did, while in Umno, the country's situation turned bad. 'I had also worked with PKR president Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim, and DAP's Lim Guan Eng and Lim Kit Siang. 'But now what is important is to strengthen my own house and, at the same time, provide Malaysians with a new political choice,' he was quoted saying. Shafie added that he would announce Warisan's decision on whether the party would contest at the Johor state election when he visits the southern peninsular state next month. 'I have instructed our machinery in Johor to assess the situation before a decision is made on the matter. There are already too many state elections. We already had Melaka and Johor, and we would not know which state will hold theirs next and at the same time the general election is also to be held soon. 'At the same time, Warisan members also feel that we should not stand and watch from the sidelines when these states hold their polls because if the federal election is called, Warisan needs assemblyman's help,' he was quoted saying. On January 24, PH chairman Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim said that the coalition plans to bring together all Opposition political parties to contest all 56 seats at the upcoming Johor state election. Anwar's plan to rope in all opposition parties — including Warisan, Muda and Pejuang — is to ensure that Barisan Nasional and Umno would be defeated at the state polls, which he said would hopefully lead to wins for the coalition at the next general election. 

SIBU, Feb 22 — Sibu MP Oscar Ling, who tested positive for Covid-19, ended his last day of home quarantine yesterday. 'Yes, today is my last day of quarantine, (and I) actually can be released today. I have been under home quarantine since Feb 13. 'I contracted Covid-19 from my kids. They started having symptoms and later detected to be positive. My wife and I were later also infected,' he said yesterday. Ling said in view of the current spread of the Omicron variant, he advised the public to get their Covid-19 booster dose if they had not already done so. 'I can see that my kid with complete vaccination has less symptoms and severity than my youngest daughter, who has only started her first vaccine two days before being infected,' he said. Sibu yesterday recorded 75 new Covid-19 cases, according to the State Disaster Management Committee in its daily update on the pandemic. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 22 — Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) chief Tan Sri Azam Baki could still be in breach of the government's code of conduct for public officers if he neglected to declare the ownership of shares now at the centre of public attention, lawyers explained. Regulator Securities Commission (SC) had on January 19 said it decided that a law — which only allows share trading accounts to be used by the person benefiting from it or which disallows proxy trading — had not been violated, as independent evidence from an inquiry showed that Azam had control of and operated his trading account by giving instructions to buy, sell and trade shares from the account. The SC had launched the investigation after Azam previously publicly declared in a press conference that his share trading account was used by his brother to buy shares ― a move widely perceived as proxy trading by the public. After the SC's probe found there to be no proxy trading despite Azam saying he let his brother use his account, Malay Mail asked lawyers whether this put the MACC chief at risk of violating the government code. No rule breach if share purchase declared Datuk Geethan Ram Vincent, who is both a former Securities Commission (SC) prosecutor and a former deputy public prosecutor, stressed that whether Azam broke any rules was 'all fact-centric' or revolving around what actually happened when the company shares were purchased in 2015. 'The question is, did he declare and did he obtain the necessary permission,' the lawyer, who is now in private practice, said. Geethan referred to the Public Officers (Conduct and Discipline) Regulations 1993 ― a set of regulations which was carried on the Public Services Department's website, and said the question is whether Azam declared the company shares bought from the time of purchase. 'As the purchase is a large amount disproportionate to his earning, [Regulation] 10(3) and (4) would be applicable,' he said, referring to Regulation 10 which would require Azam to disclose the purchase. Regulation 10(3) of the 1993 regulations states that when a public officer or his wife or child proposes to acquire a property that is inconsistent with Regulation 4, the officer must first obtain written permission from the disciplinary authority before making the purchase. Among other things, Regulation 4 provides that a public officer shall not be dishonest or untrustworthy; subordinate or make his public duty of lower importance than his private interests; conduct himself in a manner likely to bring his private interests into conflict with his public duty; or conduct himself in any manner likely to cause a reasonable suspicion that either he has used his public position for personal advantage or that he had allowed his private interests to come into conflict with his public duty to the extent that it impairs his usefulness as a public officer. 'To determine if Tan Sri Azam had complied with the Rules, one needs to go through his asset declaration and since [Regulation] 4 is applicable, this purchase and this asset should have been recorded in his Service Book which is also known as the 'Buku Perkhidmatan Kerajaan'. 'All in all, if he had duly declared this purchase and had satisfied the Pihak Berkuasa Tatatertib (Disciplinary Authority) and his Department Head, he would not have flouted any Rule in the Regulations,' Geethan said. Geethan confirmed that the disciplinary authority for civil servants — including MACC officers — would usually be the Public Services Commission, while explaining that the government service book records everything that may have occurred in relation to a civil servant such as 'your salary, bonus, increment, leave entitlement, if you received an award, a warning, your asset declaration, your transfer'. Under Regulation 10(4), a disciplinary authority when deciding whether to grant permission for the asset purchase is required to consider several factors, such as the property value in relation to the officer's salary and any legitimate private means; whether the acquisition or holding will or is likely to be in conflict of interest of the public service or be inconsistent with the officer's position as a public servant or be inconsistent with the code of conduct in Regulation 4; and any other factors necessary to uphold the public service's integrity and efficiency. That RM100,000 limit on shares buy Referring to items 23 and 24 of the government's 2002 circular also found on the Public Service's Department's website — 'PP Bil.03/2002 Pemilikan Dan Perisytiharan Harta Oleh Pegawai Awam' — on asset ownership and declaration by public officers, Geethan said: 'Any civil servant is allowed to buy shares subjected to a few conditions. The purchases should not exceed five per cent of the paid-up capital AND/OR not more than RM100,000.00 (the lower amount should apply).' In a situation where Azam had allegedly purchased shares valued above RM100,000, Geethan said the question, then, would be whether he had obtained the relevant permission in writing to make the share purchase. 'Is he able to provide the written permission to the investigating authority? If he has the written permission, then he has not flouted this particular provision,' he said. What are examples of conflict of interest scenarios? Asked for examples on how buying company shares could be seen as conflict of interest for public servants, Geethan outlined situations such as when it is related to work done or positions held at the government agency that a civil servant is in. 'Tan Sri Azam is currently the head of the MACC and was previously one of the directors of the MACC. Being the number one agency combating corruption in the country, they investigate hundreds of thousands of individuals and companies. 'In the circumstances, when an officer at his level makes a significant share purchase, the question is, was he conflicted in any way when he made the purchase?' he said. 'The circumstances in which he would be conflicted are endless but amongst others are: (1) If it was a company that was being investigated by MACC; (2) Tan Sri Azam had insider information obtained as a result of the investigation by MACC; (3) He has been given insider information as a result of the position he held in MACC,' Geethan explained in giving hypothetical scenarios as examples. Lingering questions Lawyer Nizam Bashir noted that there is still Section 25(4) of the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991 'to contend with and which in simple terms, criminalizes proxy trading'. 'There have been numerous cases in the past where the SC has taken a dim view of those engaged in proxy trading and prosecuted for the commission of an offence in that regard. So it's hard to reconcile the SC's present stance when the SC made their statement on 19.01.2022,' he said when contacted. Asked about the 2002 government circular, Nizam noted that item 23 in the circular 'only permits a civil servant to buy shares if the value of the purchase does not exceed RM100,000.00' and further noted that 'one can see how this immediately applies to the present case to prevent Tan Sri Azam Baki from purchasing the shares he is/was alleged to have owned as those shares were above RM100,000.00'. On January 8, Minister in Prime MInister's Department Datuk Seri Wan Junaidi Jaafar said the one million shares allegedly owned by Azam were only valued at RM330,000 when they were first purchased in 2016. As for the 1993 regulations that there were possible risks of breaching, Nizam said: 'Tan Sri Azam Baki could have risked breaching rule 10 of the Public Officers (Conduct and Discipline) Regulations 1993 which requires public officers to declare all assets: a. owned by them, their spouses, their children; or b. held by third parties on their behalf, their spouse's behalf or their children's behalf.' He said the context to this was allegations that Azam had as MACC's investigation director between 2015 and 2016 purportedly became the owner of shares in a company and warrants in another company. However, Nizam confirmed that civil servants like Azam could avoid being in breach of the 1993 regulations and comply with the rules, by declaring such assets. 'Simple, if the civil servant, his/her spouse and/or his/her child has assets caught by rule 10, the civil servant should declare the assets to the Service Commision/Disciplinary Authority via his/her Head of Department,' he said. What happens if a civil servant is being investigated? Nizam cited the 1993 regulations such as Regulations 43, 44 and 45 which spells out the consequences to a civil servant who has breached the 1993 regulations or is being investigated for such possible breaches, including being interdicted (put on garden leave). 'So it can be things like: a. having the offence recorded in the Government Service Book (regulation 43); b. interdicting an officer from the exercise of his duties generally (regulation 44); and c. interdicting the officer from the exercise of his duties for a period not exceeding 1 month. (regulation 45),' he said. Asked if a civil servant would be suspended from work for breaching or while under investigation for possible breach of the 1993 regulations, Geethan confirmed that possible options would include a suspension by the relevant department or a voluntary leave by the officer involved ―- and that both situations would see the officer still receiving pay while suspended from work duties. 'Tan Sri Azam would only be considered to be suspended from work, if the offence Tan Sri Azam is being investigated for is an offence which directly relates to his duty as a civil servant, his presence in duty will hinder the investigation, and his presence will cause or stir unwanted backlashes to the department. 'In the present circumstances, that's not the issue. Therefore, it is not mandatory for him to be suspended,' he said. 'However, that aside, Tan Sri Azam is the head of MACC. In the circumstances, it would be best for Tan Sri Azam to be on leave pending investigation and decision by the Attorney General,' he said. Based on his own experiences, Geethan confirmed that the SC's role is like that of investigating agencies (such as the police or MACC) which would refer the outcome of their investigations to the Attorney General's Chambers (AGC) to decide whether an offence was committed and whether to prosecute. 'The recent views by the SC are merely their recommendations. The SC's decision is not final as they are bound by the decision that will eventually be made by the Public Prosecutor/Attorney General. 'The final decision lies with the attorney general who will then decide if an offence has indeed occurred. Yes, the SC has officers who have been gazetted as DPPs but all cases investigated by the SC are referred to the AGC's for a decision and this should be no exception,' he said, later adding: 'So we actually want to know what has the AGC decided.' A protest against the MACC chief, dubbed the #TangkapAzamBaki rally, has been scheduled for today and organisers have said it will proceed despite the police's move to close six major roads in the city and several train stations in the city centre. 

KLANG, Dec 17 — An unemployed man was charged at the Magistrates' Court here today with the murder of a senior citizen in Port Klang last week. Muhammad Shahrul Shamsudin, 33, remained silent after the charge was read out before Magistrate P Sarulatha and no plea was recorded from the accused. Muhammad Shahrul is accused of killing Mohd Sani Abdullah, 69, in front of a house in Kampung Idaman, Port Klang at 12.38pm on December 10. The charge was framed under Section 302 of the Penal Code which carries the mandatory death sentence. Earlier, lawyer K. Nathiya requested the court to refer Muhammad Shahrul to the hospital as the accused's family claimed that the man had a psychiatric problem but had never sought treatment at the hospital. P Sarulatha then fixed January 17 for mention and ordered the accused to be referred to a psychiatric hospital. On December 10, police arrested two men, both aged 33, in less than four hours after they were suspected of killing a contractor in Kampung Idaman. 

NILAI, Feb 12 — The monthly minimum wage of RM1,500 a month was not a rash decision but was determined after discussion with various parties, Human Resources Minister Datuk Seri M. Saravanan said. He said the setting of the minimum wage also involved discussions with the National Wage Consultative Council (MPGN) and requires the approval of the prime minister as well as the Cabinet. 'Currently, we can see that the private sector wage rate is lower than that of government departments so they are being raised accordingly. 'The economic slowdown should not be used as an excuse (not to increase minimum wage) because we need to increase cash flow to revive the economy and take care of the people's wellbeing,' he told reporters after officiating the Federation of Accredited JPK Centres Malaysia (FeMAC) convocation ceremony here today. Saravanan said in the past three years, the minimum wage rate had not been implemented and his ministry had not made a sudden decision, instead it was based on the aspirations of the people. 'In the current situation, we need to increase cash flow at lower levels so that the economy recovers. As a minister, I agree with this view and it is time for our country to implement the RM1,500 minimum wage...this decision will be determined by the Cabinet,' he added. 

GEDONG, Dec 12 — The government is currently in the final phase of negotiations with four multinational companies (MNCs) to develop cloud-based services facilities and data centres in the country, Minister of Communications and Multimedia Tan Sri Annuar Musa said. He said the Ministry of Finance has informed that one negotiation had been completed and three were nearing completion to enable the international companies to make larger investments. 'One of these companies informed me that their investment is worth more than RM1 billion for cloud computing and cloud services,' he told reporters after officiating Malaysian Family Digital Economy Centre (PEDi) and launching high-speed broadband service unifi here today. Gedong is located about 90 minutes using land transport from Kuching City. Meanwhile, Annuar said there are at least three local and international companies planning to develop broadband services in Sarawak. 'They have met with the Ministry of Communications and Multimedia to disclose their plans to make another intercontinental cable, a submarine cable that will pass through northern Sarawak via the coast in the South China Sea,' he said. He said the plan has been notified to the Ministry of Transport and would be presented to the Cabinet for approval. 'If this project is realised, Sarawak will be an important landing point for the country,' he added. 

KUALA LUMPUR: A total 3,583 flood victims from five districts have been placed in 46 temporary evacuation centres (PPS) following continuous rain which began about 10pm on Friday. Selangor Menteri Besar Amirudin Shari said as of 5pm today the flood victims were from Klang, Petaling, Sepang, Kuala Langat and Kuala Selangor. He said all the victims will undergo Covid-19 screening periodically to ensure there is no coronavirus outbreak in any of the PPS. He said a special PPS will be provided for victims tested positive for Covid-19. 'The state Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID) said the rain distribution has reached 380mm, and the tide in affected areas has reached up to 4.5 metres. 'This amount is double the highest rainfall recorded previously, which is about 180mm, where the water level would reach about 60mm,' he said after chairing the Selangor Disaster Management Unit meeting today. Amirudin said state government assets and agencies such as the Fire and Rescue Department, police and armed forces will be deployed to evacuate victims and to distribute basic necessities. He said Pengurusan Air Selangor Sdn Bhd (Air Selangor) has been instructed to provide a mobile water tank for all operating PPS for temporary use. 'All these efforts will be coordinated by the Smart Selangor Operations Centre (SSOC) based in Shah Alam. 'A team from Team Volunteers Selangor and Selangor Volunteer (Serve) have been mobilised to assist in moving residents to PPS, distribute assistance and for the cleaning process after the waters begin to recede. 'A total 134 sluice gates have been closed due to the high tide incident. It is unsafe for them to remain open as the water might spill over and further flood nearby residential areas,' he said. He said a total 93 pumps are fully operational to accelerate the water flow into the river drainage system to control ongoing floods in five districts. He said the Malaysian Meteorological Department forecasted heavy rains to continue in Sabak Bernam, Kuala Selangor, Hulu Selangor, Gombak, Petaling, Kuala Langat, Hulu Langat and other states including Perak, Kelantan, Pahang, Kuala Lumpur and Putrajaya. The Menteri Besar advised affected residents to be prepared for any evacuation possibilities. 'This is for you and your family's safety at such critical times. 'Please avoid leaving the house if there are no urgent need and stay away from flooded places. 'The state government will do everything we can to ensure emergency aid reaches the victims as soon as possible,' he said. The public can keep a tab on the floods through the Menteri Besar's social media pages. They can also call the Selangor Disaster Management Unit at 03-50350920, or the numbers listed below :  1. Klang City Council - 03-3374 8845  2. Shah Alam City Council - 03-5522 2787  3. Kuala Langat City Council - 03-31822566    4. Tengku Ampuan Rahimah Hospital - 03-3323 9478  5. Klang Health District office 03-3323 9554  6. PDRM Klang Selatan - 03-3372 2222  7. PDRM Klang Utara - 03-3291 3344  8. Welfare Department - 03-3341 3703  9. Works Department - 03-3371 4040  10. Selangor Drainage and Irrigation Department - 03-3371 2464  11. Civil Defence Force - 03-3371 0820 

SHAH ALAM, Jan 13 — The total amount of losses suffered by aquaculture entrepreneurs in the flood-affected states is estimated at RM28 million while for myKomuniti Perikanan, fisheries operators (myAP) and inland fishermen, the losses are estimated at RM800,000, according to a preliminary report from the Department of Fisheries (DOF). DOF in a statement today also mentioned that it has received a report on the value of the amount of assistance required through the Agrofood Reviving Programme (disaster fund) and it will be forwarded to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries (MAFI). 'The assistance channelled is subject to the set rate and limit, which is assistance up to 50 per cent of the operating cost (seeds, equipment and feed) according to the operator's livestock system. 'The limit of assistance to be given also does not exceed 50 per cent of the value of losses reported and confirmed by the District/State Fisheries Office,' according to the DOF statement. The department said the assistance to be given would be in the form of agricultural inputs or equipment/machinery, business equipment assistance or other forms of assistance that would help revive the target group's projects as well as farm mechanisation and automation. For the fisheries sector, the target group is small-scale aquaculture farmers who carry out freshwater and brackish water farming activities as well as hatcheries in areas up to two hectares or using cages not exceeding 15 units, he said. DOF said the affected operators can submit an application to the District/State Fisheries Office by submitting the relevant complete documents. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 28 — Datin Seri Rosmah Mansor claimed that Attorney-General Tan Sri Idrus Harun had acted beyond his jurisdiction when he appointed Datuk Seri Gopal Sri Ram as senior deputy public prosecutor to lead the investigations into the 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB) scandal and the prosecution of those involved. The wife of the former Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Tun Razak made the claim in her supporting affidavit which was filed with a notice of motion to disqualify Sri Ram as the senior deputy public prosecutor to lead the prosecution team in her money laundering and tax evasion trial. The notice was filed yesterday and the copies were distributed to the media by her lawyer Datuk Geethan Ram Vincent today. In the supporting affidavit, Rosmah said after examining the former Federal Court judge's letter of appointment as the senior deputy public prosecutor, dated May 21, 2021, under Section 376 (3) of the Criminal Procedure Code, she found that the appointment did not refer to her case. She said if the court was of the view that Idrus had acted in an orderly manner in line with his statutory powers, then Sri Ram was still not a 'fit dan proper' individual to prosecute the case. 'I would like to stress that my lawyers will make detailed submissions on this matter during the hearing and it is obvious that Sri Ram should be removed as the lead prosecutor in the case,' she said. In the notice of motion, Rosmah also claimed that Sri Ram's appointment was illegal and void. The notice will be heard before High Court judge Zaini Mazlan on Feb 3. Rosmah, 70, is facing 12 charges of money laundering involving RM7,097,750, and five charges of failing to declare her income to the Inland Revenue Board. The offences were allegedly committed at Affin Bank in Jalan Ampang, here, between Dec 4, 2013, and June 8, 2017, and the Inland Revenue Board in Jalan Tuanku Abdul Halim here between May 1, 2014, and May 1, 2018. 

JOHOR BARU, Jan 1 — Almost 18,000 disaster relief tents have been distributed to flood-prone areas in the state, says the Sultan of Johor, Sultan Ibrahim Almarhum Sultan Iskandar. He said preparations for floods were made every year and updated accordingly by the State Disaster Management Committee (JPBN) chaired by Johor State Secretary Datuk Azmi Rohani. 'Whether the floods occur or not, we are ready to face them every year. Not only tents, other early preparations have also been made so that action can be taken immediately if an area is hit by floods. 'Earlier, at 2am, the Tunku Mahkota of Johor (Tunku Ismail Sultan Ibrahim) was already in Segamat to review the situation. Assistance is not only required during the floods, but also for people to continue with their lives after the disaster. 'Houses need to be cleaned, damaged equipment needs to be replaced, and so on,' said Sultan Ibrahim in a post uploaded on his official Facebook page here today. This evening, Sultan Ibrahim visited the SK Kampung Tenang flood relief centre in Labis, Segamat, which houses 272 flood victims from 93 families. While there, he ordered additional mattresses and pillows for the comfort of the victims. Accompanying him on the visit were the Tunku Temenggong of Johor, Tunku Idris Iskandar Al-Haj Sultan Ibrahim; Tunku Panglima of Johor, Tunku Abdul Rahman Al-Haj Sultan Ibrahim; and Tunku Putera of Johor, Tunku Abu Bakar Al-Haj Sultan Ibrahim. 'My foundation will try its best to help the flood victims in Johor, but I only have two hands. I can't do it alone. I hope more parties will also come forward to help out. 'I also call on the people of Johor to perform 'solat sunat hajat' (special prayer) and pray for relief from the disaster, as well as for protection,' he said. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Severe infections comprised less than one per cent of new Covid-19 cases clocked on Sunday, with half of them involving fully vaccinated individuals without booster jabs.  Malaysia, on Sunday, reported 24,466 new cases. Category Two cases led the infection table with 15,657 cases, followed by Category One (8,704 cases), Category Three (51 cases), Category Four (34 cases) and Category Five (20 cases).  The country, up to Sunday, had 300,692 active Covid-19 cases.  Health director-general Tan Sri Dr Noor Hisham Abdullah said, the 105 critical cases logged yesterday comprised fully vaccinated individuals without boosters (56 cases), unvaccinated individuals or those without full vaccination status (25 cases) and individuals who have received booster jabs (24 cases).  Dr Noor Hisham said 53 critical cases clocked yesterday involved individuals aged above 60 and 36 cases had comorbidities.  As of yesterday, 353 cases were receiving treatment at Intensive Care Units (ICU), including 193 cases coping on ventilator support.  Another 40 individuals succumbed to the virus on Sunday, including 17 brought-in-dead (BID) cases. The Covid-19 pandemic has claimed 32,674 lives since it gripped the country in March 2020.  Dr Noor Hisham said, 22,380 individuals also recovered from their infections on Sunday, pushing the country's recovery tally to 3,085,940. 

KLUANG: A non-governmental organisation recently donated 40 hampers to students at SMK Canossian Convent here.  Perkhidmatan Komuniti Sempurna (PKS) youth director Peter Soo said this was its final corporate social responsibility project for 2021, which was carried forward into the new year.    'This was supposed to be a Christmas project but it was delayed due to the postponement of the reopening of school from Jan 2 to Jan 9.   PKS has been actively involved in humanitarian efforts in the past two years of the pandemic.   'We are concerned about the welfare of the community and giving food items is a practical way of helping the students' families.   'We also had projects for the school last year during Chinese New Year, Hari Raya and Deepavali,' said Soo, who is also a committee member of the school's parent-teacher association. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Dewan Rakyat Speaker Tan Sri Azhar Azizan Harun today rejected the opposition's motion to discuss issues related to Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) chief commissioner Tan Sri Azam Baki's share ownership in the house. This, Azhar said, after he did not receive any notice from Prime Minister Datuk Seri Ismail Sabri Yaakob, for the matter to be included in today's agenda, which was to discuss the recent floods. He, however, acknowledged accepting the notices submitted by two MPs; Datuk Seri Salahuddin Ayub (PH-Pulai) and Nga Kor Ming (PH-Teluk Intan). 'I have replied that this special session was called by the prime minister, at his absolute discretion. 'As such, I have no authority to oppose or accept the motion. The agenda for today's special sitting was set by the prime minister. '(And) as of today, I did not receive any notice for the matter to be included, therefore I assumed that it was deemed not to be included in today's agenda,' he said. Earlier, Salahuddin asked for Azhar's permission for the motion to be included in today's special sitting.  He was joined by several opposition MPs, namely Nga Kor Ming (PH-Teluk Intan) and Gobind Singh Deo (PH-Puchong). The special sitting today is to discuss the recent flood disaster. Based on the order of the day, other than Ismail Sabri, to give briefings on the flood recent floods are Minister in the Prime Minister's Department (Special Functions) Datuk Dr Abdul Latiff Ahmad, Finance Minister, Tengku Datuk Seri Zafrul Tengku Abdul Aziz and Environment and Water Minister Datuk Seri Tuan Ibrahim Tuan Man. 

KUALA LUMPUR: New appointments will be given to members of the public who have missed their Covid-19 vaccine appointments due to the floods.  ProtectHealth Corporation Sdn Bhd, in a statement today, said the public could also register themselves to be on a waitlist or backup list at the vaccination centres (PPV) nearby once the flood situation eases.  'ProtectHealth is saddened by those who are badly affected by the current flood situation and there are PPVs under ProtectHealth which are also affected by this situation.  'We would like to inform that affected PPVs will be unable to operate due to the situation.  'For all vaccinees who are affected by the floods and have missed their vaccine appointments, a new appointment date will be given, or you can register as a waitlist/backup list at a nearby PPV once the situation permits.   'Our prayers are with those who were affected by the floods. The safety and wellbeing of all vaccinees, our private medical practitioners and all our stakeholders are our utmost priority,' the statement read.  ProtectHealth Corporation is a non-profit company under the Health Ministry established to coordinate, administer and manage initiatives related to the financing of health services as entrusted by the government. 

MUKAH: A Gabungan Parti Sarawak (GPS) candidate who is defending her Dalat state seat has incorporated something different in her campaign trail for the coming state polls.  Though Dalat is among the 64 constituencies allowed to organise physical ceramahs, Datuk Seri Fatimah Abdullah and her campaigning team have deployed 10 people on jet skis to help her win support among the 12,503 registered voters there.  Flying flags with the GPS logo, these jet ski riders were spotted along Sungai Batang Oya since a majority of voters in Dalat are residing near the river.  'This is the method we are using in the campaign for the state election since the SOPs implemented during the period are quite strict.  'Those on the jet skis began their journey from the jetty in Oya until the upstream of Batang Oya river,' she said.  Fatimah is a going against Salleh Mahali of Parti Bumi Kenyalang in a straight fight to defend her Dalat state seat during the 12th Sarawak election, which has been fixed for early voting and polling on Dec 14 and Dec 18 respectively.     In the previous state election, Fatimah retained the seat after she secured a 6,330 majority against Sim Eng Hua of PKR.  As Sarawak is still under Phase Three of the National Recovery Plan and the country is still battling the on-going Covid-19 pandemic, the SOPs for the state election are similar to those enforced during the Melaka polls and are strict to prevent the spread of the virus.  The Election Commission (EC), however, recently relaxed the restrictions and allowed physical ceramahs to be held in 64 constituencies, mostly in rural parts of the state with poor 4G coverage subject to conditions and strict compliance with the SOPs. 

IPOH, Jan 1 — A restaurant in Jalan Sultan Yusof here that was recently raided by the police for violating the standard operating procedure (SOP) on Christmas eve, was once again compounded in a special New Year's Eve operation last night. Perak police chief Datuk Mior Faridalathrash Wahid said in the 11pm raid on the restaurant that was turned into a pub, police found 311 patrons at the premises although it could only accommodate not more than 100 people. 'They were sitting closely and failed to observe physical distancing. As such, we have issued a RM1,000 compound on each patron and the restaurant owner,' he told reporters at the scene last night. He said compounds totalling RM300,000 were issued on 177 men and 99 women, including 35 underage individuals who were at the premises. The premises had previously been raided by the police for operating beyond the time set by the National Security Council, he added. Commenting on the special operation from 6pm yesterday until 6am today, Mior Faridalathrash said police conducted some 48 raids and mounted 74 roadblocks, involving 901 officers and personnel. 'Checks were made on 3,637 individual and of the total, 23 people aged between 17 and 46 were detained for drug and criminal offences. 'In addition, police also inspected 2,938 vehicles and issued 274 summonses for various traffic offences,' he said.  Meanwhile, in George Town, the police detained 253 individuals throughout the state for various offences, including 23 people in a private New Year party at an entertainment outlet in Pulau Tikus. Penang Criminal Investigation Department chief SAC Rahimi Ra'ais said the individuals, including four women, were busy partying when they were arrested. 'The operation from 9pm till 4am today involved all police departments and five district police headquarters and was planned comprehensively to produce more systematic results. 'Overall, 8,164 individuals and 4,929 vehicles were checked in the operation, and 253 people were detained for various offences, including narcotics drunk driving, and SOP violations,' he said during a press conference here today. 

KOTA KINABALU: The overall poverty statistics in Sabah shows there are 86,766 people comprising the hardcore poor, poor and economically marginalised in the state as of Dec 1.   State Rural Development minister Datuk Jahid Jahim said from this figure, there were 41,490 hardcore poor,  24,864 poor, while the total number of dropouts was 20,412 people.     He added the information was based on a new methodology to determine the poverty line income (PGK) to better reflect the consumption pattern, current needs and demographics of households.     He said the PGK calculation methodology was last updated in 2005 and the PGK in 2016 was RM980 per month for one household.     The study was conducted by the Economic Planning Unit in the Prime Minister's Department in collaboration with the Department of Statistics Malaysia (DOSM), Health Ministry and several related ministries and agencies from March 2019 to June 2020.     'As a result of the review, the methodology of setting the PGK has been improved in three aspects, namely the concept of setting food PGK, which has been improved from 'minimum' to 'optimum minimum' by taking into account the quality improvement of food basket items based on the 2020 Food Pyramid and 2020 Malaysian Diet Guide food group (PDM) in line with daily physical activities and healthy living.     'Secondly, for no-food PGK, the needs of the lowest 20 per cent income group (B20) identified increased from 106 to 146 items.      'This means, 40 items that were previously not considered basic requirements to the B20 group, have now been included in the list.     'Thirdly, the change in household spending patterns, current prices of goods and services in 2019 compared to 2005,' he said at the State Legislative Assembly here today.    He was answering a question from Datuk Ewon Benedick (Upko- Kadamaian) on the latest methodology to determine PGK and the latest poverty statistics in Sabah.      Meanwhile, during the debate session, Ben Chong (Warisan-Tanjong Kapor) urged the government to focus on downstream industries to elevate the standard of living among rural folks including at the eight poorest districts - Pitas, Kudat, Kota Belud, Beluran, Tongod, Nabawan, Telupid and Kota Marudu.   As a Kudat native, Chong said he felt ashamed that it was difficult for the district to come out from the dilemma of being labelled the poorest district in Malaysia since 10 years ago.      'Those of us in Kudat feel very sad because we only received the allocation to upgrade the Kudat Town Board Office Building while there are many infrastructure in the villages that need attention from the government.'      Chong also suggested for the state government to bring in investment for the construction of the Kudat port to boost the local economy. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Dec 16 — Intel Corp will invest more than US$7 billion (RM29.6 billion) to build a new chip-packaging and testing factory in Malaysia, Chief Executive Pat Gelsinger said on Thursday, expanding production in the country following a global shortage of semiconductors. The new advanced packaging facility in Malaysia is expected to begin production in 2024, he said. The RM30 billion investment is expected to create over 4,000 Intel jobs and more than 5,000 construction jobs in the country, the Malaysian government said. Last month, the United States and Malaysia said they plan to sign an agreement by early next year towards improving transparency, resilience and security in the semiconductor and manufacturing sector supply chains. A global shortage of semiconductor chips, caused partly by a pandemic-fuelled demand for electronics and disruptions in supply chains has seen car makers cut production and delays in smartphone deliveries at companies including Apple Inc. Malaysia's chip assembly industry, accounting for more than a tenth of a global trade worth over US$20 billion, has warned that shortages will last at least two years. 'This undertaking is indeed timely given the bullish global demand driven by the chip shortages and the potential challenges arising from the recovery of the pandemic globally,' Malaysian Minister of International Trade and Industry Datuk Seri Mohamed Azmin Ali said in a statement. Intel opened its first production facility outside the United States at a five-acre assembly site in Penang in 1972. By 1975, it employed about 1,000 people and had become a crucial part of the company's manufacturing chain, its website said. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 13 — Malaysia is certainly open for business although its borders largely remain closed for now, said National Recovery Council (MPN) chairman Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin. During a lunch meeting with more than 30 international industry leaders in Dubai, he highlighted some challenges and opportunities the country is facing at this stage of the pandemic. 'It is clear that the opportunities to rebuild our economies and societies to something better than the pre-pandemic era are abundant,' he said. 'While our borders may largely remain closed for now, let me make this clear — Malaysia is certainly open for business.' Muhyiddin said Malaysia's value proposition for investors is solid, the investment ecosystem is robust, the ease of doing business is improving and the country's pandemic recovery is underway. 'Additionally, our physical and digital infrastructures are being constantly upgraded, our talent pool is wide and deep, the strength of our institutions is rock-solid, our economic fundamentals are stellar and acknowledged globally,' he continued. 'As MPN chairman, tasked with spearheading the recovery efforts post-pandemic, the council will be putting together a road map for recovery called the National Recovery Plan 2.0, which continues on from the earlier National Recovery Plan exit strategy in four phases which had been concluded in December 2021.' The National Recovery Plan 2.0 will seek to chart the path of recovery which is inclusive and systematic that will propel Malaysia to greater heights, bouncing back stronger than before the pandemic, he said. Therefore, he hopes that more businesses will invest in Malaysia, and for Malaysian companies to venture not just into the United Arab Emirates (UAE) but across the Gulf Cooperation Council countries. 'Let us forge a shared destiny for a more meaningful future ahead of us, not just during the pandemic but eventually in the endemic and beyond,' he added. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Perbadanan PR1MA Malaysia (PR1MA) will allocate an additional RM3 million to aid families affected by the flood disaster.   In a statement, PR1MA chairman Datuk Dr Fathul Bari Mat Jahya said the recent addition brings the total allocation of the flood relief mission by PR1MA corporation to RM5 million.  AdvertisementSkip 'The addition for the  #PR1MAKita 2021 flood relief mission is to alleviate the burden of those who are affected by this extraordinary flood disaster. This is in line with the initiatives announced by the government.   'We understand the victims have lost their homes, experienced damaged properties, and had their houses filled with mud post-flood, so PR1Ma will provide extra assistance through waterjets to clean the affected areas; personal hygiene kits; pillows; mattresses; blankets and food baskets.     'The aid will be donated and distributed to the flood victims of the respective states affected by this natural disaster,' he said.   Fathul Bari added that PR1MA had also mobilised more than 100 of its employees to Hulu Langat and Taman Sri Muda, Shah Alam, to help in the cleaning up of the homes damaged by the flood.   In the same statement, PR1MA chief executive officer Datuk Mohd Nazri Md Shariff said the corporation would continue to work with the Housing and Local Government Ministry to ensure smooth coordination for the distribution of donations to flood victims in the affected areas.   'Not forgetting our buyers who are also affected by the flood, PR1MA will be in touch with you and hope to extend help to you as much as possible,' he said.    For any further inquiries, PR1MA buyers can contact 03-76289898 or email info@pr1ma.my from Monday to Sunday, 9am to 6pm except during public holidays in Selangor. 

PHNOM PENH, Feb 24 —  Malaysia has always regarded Myanmar as a neighbouring country and a valued member of Asean, and would like to see the country bounce back and return to a normal situation in accordance with the Asean Five-Point Consensus (5PC), said Prime Minister Datuk Seri Ismail Sabri Yaakob. Ismail Sabri said Malaysia also wished to see Myanmar progress for the good of its people so that the country would be in a state of peace, harmony and prosperity. 'The Asean 5PC is very important. This is our common direction in dealing with the situation in Myanmar. All parties should work together to implement the Asean 5PC effectively and comprehensively. 'Nevertheless, the main responsibility in this matter lies with the government in Myanmar. They are also part of this Consensus,' he told a joint press conference with his Cambodian counterpart Samdech Techno Hun Sen after their four-eyed meeting at the Peace Palace here today. 'I also underlined the importance of seeing positive developments in the Rohingya issue. I share with Prime Minister Hun Sen the challenges faced by the receiving states of refugees, including Malaysia, due to the influx of Rohingya and other refugees from Myanmar,' said the prime minister. According to Ismail Sabri, Malaysia will continue to support Cambodia's efforts as Asean Chair, as well as the Special Envoy of the Asean Chair on Myanmar, in dealing with the situation in Myanmar effectively. He said Hun Sen understood the challenges and constraints faced by Malaysia in temporarily housing the refugees. 'In this case, the repatriation of these refugees to Myanmar in a safe and dignified manner must be implemented,' he said. On his discussion with Hun Sen about the South China Sea issues, Ismail Sabri said Malaysia is of the opinion that the South China Sea should remain a peaceful and stable area, as well as safe for trade activities. 'Any issue that arises must be dealt with rationally, peacefully and constructively, in accordance with the principles of universally recognised international law, including the Unclos (United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea) 1982,' he said. Apart from that, Ismail Sabri said he and his Cambodian counterpart also agreed that the exchange of visits at the top and all other levels should be enhanced to further strengthen the existing close ties, mutual understanding and appreciation between the two countries. 'The exchange of visits will open up more opportunities in the growth of multi-dimensional cooperation such as in human resource development, infrastructure, trade and investment, tourism, education and others,' he said. The prime minister said Malaysia is also keen to continue working with Cambodia in supporting the youth development efforts in both countries, especially in entrepreneurship. In fact, he said there was already a memorandum of understanding inked between MRANTI (Malaysian Research Accelerator for Technology and Innovation) (formerly known as MaGIC) and Impact Hub Phnom Penh for that purpose. On Cambodia as Asean Chair for 2022, Ismail Sabri said Malaysia will continue giving full support and cooperation to Cambodia. 'I am confident that Cambodia will perform excellently as Asean Chair this year. We (Asean) expect to face various challenges in 2022, including problems due to the Covid-19 pandemic and other complex regional issues. Asean unity and centrality are of paramount importance. 'It is also important to maintain Asean credibility. Malaysia will continue collaborating with Cambodia in maintaining peace, stability and harmony in this region,' he added. 

KUALA LUMPUR: The hospital bed utilisation rate in seven states are above 70 per cent as of yesterday.  Data from the Health Ministry's CovidNow portal showed that bed utilisation rate is highest in Melaka at 86.4 per cent followed by Terengganu at 81.5 per cent.  Bed occupancy in Kelantan hospitals is at 76.4 per cent, Kedah (75.9 per cent), Selangor (73.8 per cent), Perak (72.4 per cent), and Johor (70.8 per cent).  Covid-19 bed utilisation rate at hospitals in other states are between 37.9 per cent and 69.4 per cent.  Selangor has the highest daily admission rate of 262 cases followed by Johor at 201.  Total hospital admissions for Covid-19 cases in the country is at 68.3 per cent or 1,146 admissions yesterday.  In terms of intensive care unit (ICU) utilisation rate for Covid-19 cases, Terengganu is the highest at 93.2 per cent (28 cases).  The utilisation rate at hospitals in other states are between 25 per cent and 76.3 per cent.  Nationwide ICU utilisation rate is at 63.5 per cent with 499 active cases as of yesterday.  Overall, there are 62,486 active cases as of yesterday.  A total of 50,925 individuals are observing home quarantine, taking up 81.5 per cent of the total active cases in the country.  9.7 per cent (6,038) are being treated at Covid-19 quarantine and treatment centres (PKRC), 8.0 per cent (5,024) are hospitalised and the remaining 0.8 per cent are at intensive care units (ICU) with 230 unventilated and 269 ventilated. 

KOTA KINABALU, Jan 7 — A Sabah DAP lawmaker has panned the government's decision to lift the ban on timber exports, which has been in place since 2018. Kota Kinabalu MP Chan Foong Hin said the move could trigger a recurrence of illegal logging activities, with little enforcement to prevent it from happening. 'I find that the Gabungan Rakyat Sabah (GRS)-led Sabah government and the Sabah Forestry Department have taken contradictory stands on this issue. 'While Deputy Chief Minister Datuk Seri Jeffrey Kitingan seems to have taken the forest conservation route — in order to deal in carbon trading — chief conservator of Sabah Forests Datuk Frederick Kugan instead confirmed that the log export ban would be lifted, with effect from January 3, and log exports would be allowed from natural forests,' he said during a press conference here. The ban on timber exports was imposed in May 2018 by then chief minister Datuk Seri Shafie Apdal with the intention of processing logs locally and creating a furniture industry. 'Furthermore, the ban put a temporary stop to illegal logging activities as there was nobody for these illegal loggers to sell their logs to,' said Chan. In April last year, current Chief Minister Datuk Hajiji Noor said the ban was still in place. But last week, Kugan said that a Limited Log Export programme, which began on January 3, would allow 'eligible parties' to export logs from Sabah. This would be implemented on a case-by-case basis, subject to the applicants' eligibility, he added. Kugan confirmed that he had issued a circular, which also contained a list of criteria as to which parties are allowed to export logs from Sabah, including Sustainable Forest Management Licence Agreement licence holders. Chan said the Forestry Department has been reluctant to conduct any investigation or bring any criminal action against illegal loggers or those who breach their terms of agreement and ignored whistle-blowers despite being presented with clear proof. Earlier, during his press conference, he and a member of the public, Cheung Chau Seng, alleged that the department had failed to act against a company, which had been logging outside of its terms, despite supporting evidence. Cheung alleged that the company had continued logging activities despite its logging licence expiring on June 1, 2015. He claimed invoices dated August 30, 2015 and September 21, 2015 indicated logging activities had continued after this date. The company had also allegedly intruded into a Class II Forest Reserve/Virgin Jungle Reserve (VJR) and had conducted logging activities in Tomani, Tenom beyond the area allocated to the company under Section 5A of the Forest Enactment 1968. It purportedly managed to export these logs obtained illegally to Taiwan and had further avoided paying royalties as required under Section 24C and Section 30A of the Forest Enactment 1968. 'Cheung had lodged a complaint against the Sabah Forestry Department (SFD) with the Sabah Integrity Unit as the SFD had fail to forfeit the RM1,000,000 bank guarantee which the company had paid in return for their logging licence despite clear evidence of illegal logging beyond the logging licence granted. The Sabah Integrity Unit decided to dismiss the complaint due to a technicality,' Chan said. 'In the end, he was informed that the status of his reports had ended up as NFA or No Further Action.' 'I wish to urge the Sabah government and the Sabah Forestry Department to not sweep illegal logging under the carpet, but to seriously look into all the evidence provided, charge the offenders in court, and collect the relevant royalties through forfeiture of properties of the company.' 

KUALA LUMPUR: The national infectivity rate, or Rt, has again returned to 1.00 on Thursday.  Health director-general Tan Sri Dr Noor Hisham Abdullah said Kuala Lumpur recorded the highest Rt at 1.08, followed by Sabah that has an infectivity rate of 1.07 and Putrajaya (1.05). Another two states with a Rt higher than 1.00 were Melaka (1.02) and Negri Sembilan (1.01). The Rt in Selangor was at 1.00 yesterday(Thursday), 0.99 in Johor, 0.96 in Penang, 0.97 in Pahang, 0.94 in Kedah, 0.93 in Perak, 0.91 in Kelantan and Sarawak, 0.79 in Terengganu, 18 cases in Labuan and eight cases in Perlis. The nationwide Rt had slightly dropped to 0.99 on Wednesday after it hit 1.00 on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the percentage of the adult population who received the Covid-19 booster vaccine steadily climbed to 37.6 per cent on Thursday.  To date, 8,806,581 people, or 27 per cent of the total population in the country, have received the booster jab since the programme rolled out in October last year.  Yesterday, a total of 260,356 boosters were administered nationwide, the highest daily booster dose vaccination even given.  Currently, 78.6 per cent of the total population are holding the fully vaccinated status – comprising of 22,897,021 adults and 2,772,142 adolescents.  Meanwhile, 12 people died of Covid-19 in Malaysia, taking the death toll to 31,750. The deaths comprised three that were reported in Sabah, two each in Johor and Pahang as well as each one in Kelantan, Negri Sembilan, Penang, Terengganu and Kuala Lumpur.  The statitics of deaths per one million population reduced to six based on the data in the past 14 days with an average of 199 deaths recorded.  As of noon on Thursday, 3,684 new infections and 3,292 recoveries were registered.  This has pushed the total number of active cases to 40,276.  The Health Ministry has  identified eight new clusters on Thursday, comprising three education clusters, two each from workplaces and the community, and one import cluster.  The three education clusters comprised two in Johor, namely Jalan Sarjana Pagoh and Jalan Gangsa Pasir Gudang and one in Negri Sembilan, which was named Air Hitam Jempol.  The two workplace clusters were Lebuh Sungai Tiram Satu 2 in Penang and Lingkaran Syed Putra Dua in Kuala Lumpur. The two community clusters were Jalan Persiaran Sri Saujana Dua and Lakum Temerloh that were identified in Johor and Pahang, respectively.  The sole import cluster was Pasdec Perdana Saudi that was detected in Raub, Pahang.   These clusters have so far reported 91 cases.  As of Thursday, 65.8 per cent of the hospital beds are being used, with Melaka having the highest utilisation rate at 84.9 per cent, followed by Johor at 80.6 per cent and Kelantan (79.6 per cent).  The nationwide  intensive care unit beds utilisation rate is at 55.4 per cent, ventilators (33.2 per cent), while 30.4 per cent of the Covid-19 quarantine and treatment centres beds are occupied. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Feb 21 — Malaysia's daily Covid-19 cases dropped slightly in the last 24 hours to 26,832 but the number of deaths remained high at 37, amid a new wave of infections fuelled by the more contagious Omicron variant. The Health Ministry (MoH) also said that of the deaths reported yesterday, 10 were brought in dead. As of today, a total 32,347 people have died of the coronavirus since the start of the pandemic. New daily cases were lower than the previous day's record high of 28,825. A total of 3,200,672 people have been infected since the novel coronavirus first hit Malaysia. The national average seven-day trend in positivity rate shot up by 44 per cent from the previous period, according to the CovidNow website. Most states recorded a marked increase. Labuan, although a federal territory and not a state, saw a 311 per cent rise in the average positivity rate in the last week. At state level, Sarawak led with a 75 per cent increase followed by Terengganu at 69 per cent and Kedah at 65 per cent. Klang Valley's positive rate in the last seven days rose by 41 per cent. Hospitalisation rate Hospitalisation rate has been stable despite the surge in cases, which public health authorities said underscores the effectiveness of vaccination. Only 133 or 0.5 per cent of the new cases from the last 24 hours were classified as severe while the remaining 26,699 cases (99.5 per cent) were asymptomatic to moderately symptomatic. Still, intensive care unit usage has reached over half the maximum capacity in Kuala Lumpur (65 per cent) and two other states — Johor at 65 per cent and Melaka at 50 per cent — the MoH said in a statement issued this morning. Regular hospital bed utilisation is also on the rise in several states, some over its maximum capacity. Beds used for non-severe cases in Selangor is now at 104 per cent, Perlis at 101 per cent, Kelantan at 96 per cent, Perak at 91 per cent, Putrajaya and Johor at 82 per cent, Sabah at 79 per cent, Kuala Lumpur at 77 per cent and Penang at 50 per cent. But the national bed utilisation rate as of midnight was 67 per cent while Covid-19 related use was at 65 per cent, according to the CovidNow website. Health director-general Tan Sri Dr Noor Hisham Abdullah said in a statement that public hospitals remain capable of taking in both Covid-19 admissions and for non-coronavirus related treatment. 'In general, the MoH found all of its facilities at public hospitals can still treat both Covid-19 and non Covid-19 patients,' it said. 

KUCHING: The Election Commission (EC) has issued a total 17,885 postal ballot papers to those eligible to vote by post for the 12th Sarawak State Election. Its secretary Datuk Ikmalrudin Ishak in a statement said the total covered 16,728 Form 1A category which include EC personnel and officers as well as the police, armed forces and members of the media. There were 365 Form 1B for Malaysians living abroad and 679 Form 1C (nine agencies in the security and health sectors) as well as 113 out-of-country absentee voters. 'The issuance of postal ballot papers was carried out from Dec 8 to 10 by election personnel at all 82 state constituencies. 'The process was conducted in the presence of candidate representatives from all contesting parties or individuals,' he said. He added the postal vote papers were issued according to the provisions under Regulation 3 of the Elections (Postal Voting) Regulations 2003 for the state election. Ikmalrudin said all postal voters are reminded to mark on the ballot papers, complete and correctly fill in the Identity Declaration (Form 2) and return them to the constituency returning officer before 5 pm on polling day on Dec 18. 'The voters are also reminded to always maintain the secrecy of their votes by not taking pictures of postal ballot papers and sharing them on social media sites.' The state election will be held on Nov 18, with early voting on Dec 14. A total 349 candidates will be contesting in the 82 seats up for grabs in the state election, with 1,252,014 registered voters set to cast their votes. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Feb 24 — DAP today announced its final two candidates who will contest under the Pakatan Harapan (PH) ticket in the coming Johor state polls. They are Liew Chin Tong for the Perling state seat and Marina Ibrahim for the Skudai state seat. The announcement was made by party secretary-general Lim Guan Eng. 'Marina has been active with DAP, and it is time for her to show her capabilities to champion the rights of youth and women. 'As for Chin Tong, he will be able to bring changes not only for the people in Perling, but also the country,' said Lim in his address at the candidate unveiling event held in Johor Baru. This will be Marina's first time contesting in an election. Previously, she was the party's state legislative coordinator. 'I appeal to the people to give me this opportunity to prove what I am capable of doing. 'Although I have been serving as a state legislative coordinator, this is not enough to prove to those out there what more I can do,' she said. No stranger to elections, Liew, who is Johor DAP chief, also appealed to Johor natives and Malaysians to give Pakatan Harapan (PH) one more try at creating a government that would prioritise them. 'Ordinary Malaysians have no cable; ordinary Malaysians who have no linkages to anyone; ordinary Malaysians who have no connection, want an equal footing to begin their lives. 'And we want to deliver a clean government so that everyone can start as equal as possible, so that everyone has an opportunity to thrive in Malaysia,' said Liew. 'This election is for us to tell all Malaysians who have lost hope, let's try one more time. 'Let us try one more time, let us try to create a government for ordinary Malaysians, for ordinary Johoreans, that there is a government that works for them, that cares for them. 'This is what we hope to achieve,' said Liew. He also pointed out that contesting in the state election reminded him there was still need for electoral reforms, noting that Perling has more voters than all three parliamentary seats of Bukit Bendera (Penang), Kluang (Johor) and Ayer Hitam (Johor) he previously contested. Liew and Marina will join 12 other candidates: Jementah — Ng Kor Sim, Bekok — Kanan Mariappan, Tangkak — Ee Chin Li, Bentayan — Ng Yak Howe, Yong Peng — Tee Boon Tsong, Penggaran — Gan Peck Cheng, Mengkibol — Chew Chong Sin, Paloh — Sheikh Umar, Johor Jaya — Liow Cai Tung, Stulang — Andrew Chen Kah Eng, Senai — Wong Bor Yang and Pekan Nenas — Yeo Tung Siong. 

KUCHING, Jan 28 ― The Sarawak government is extending the monthly electricity bill discount of between five and 25 per cent for domestic, commercial and industrial consumers until June this year under the eighth package of the Bantuan Khas Sarawakku Sayang (BKSS 8.0). Chief Minister Tan Sri Abang Johari Tun Openg said a total of RM285.47 million was allocated for BKSS 8.0 with electricity bill discount being one of seven measures to assist the Sarawak people during the current Phase Four of the National Recovery Plan (PPN). 'The discount will benefit 647,000 households as well as commercial and industrial consumers in Sarawak. The total cost of this electricity bill discount amounting to RM166.8 million will be funded by the state government,' he said when announcing the latest assistance package here today. A discount of between 10 and 25 per cent will also be given on monthly water bills for the period of January to June this year through a subsidy of RM24 million, while the 50 per cent rental discount for 3,200 tenants at the Sarawak Housing Development Corporation (HDC) schemes will also be extended for the same period. The BKSS 8.0 measures also involve rental payment exemption to small and medium enterprises (SMEs) operating at business premises owned by the state's statutory bodies and government-linked companies (GLCs) for six months. Abang Johari said the local authorities (PBT) would continue providing a rental discount of 50 per cent to 10,165 small traders renting market spaces and stalls under the PBT. Meanwhile, a total of 87,500 small traders registered with the PBT will receive a special one-off grant of RM1,000 each, to be channelled through the state government's online financial transaction platform, Sarawak Pay. Some 1,725 passenger boat and van operators, taxi drivers as well as school bus and van operators will also be given one-off cash assistance of RM500 to help them continue their operations. 'The assistance reflects the commitment of the Sarawak government in restoring the socio-economic wellbeing of the people like in the previous BKSS packages,' he added. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 24 — The Malaysian-Indonesian Journalists' Association (Iswami) today held a meeting with Communications and Multimedia Minister Tan Sri Annuar Musa to discuss media cooperation programmes involving the two countries. The meeting was attended by Iswami Malaysia president Datuk Mokhtar Hussain, deputy president Datuk Zulkefli Hamzah, vice-president Ashwad Ismail and advisor Datuk Zakaria Abdul Wahab. The one-hour long meeting from 4pm discussed Iswami's participation in the 'Hari PERS Nasional' or National Press Day (HPN) in Indonesia, which will take place in Kendari, Sulawesi on February 9. Traditionally, HPN is held every year in different cities in the republic, officiated by the Indonesian president and attended by the Cabinet ministers, ambassadors, corporate figures and more than 5,000 media practitioners. Also discussed at the meeting was the National Journalists Day (Hawana) celebration, which is expected to be held on May 26 to 29 in Melaka. On November 30, last year, Prime Minister Datuk Seri Ismail Sabri Yaakob announced that the government has agreed to recognise May 29 as National Journalists Day. 'The government will continue to support programmes that are suitable to be implemented,' he said. The first and last Hawana celebration was held on April 11, 2018. 

KOTA KINABALU: Gabungan Rakyat Sabah (GRS) has channelled about RM42.9 million to assist non-Muslim schools and religious bodies in the state. Chief Minister Datuk Seri Hajiji Noor said of the total, RM17.9 million was in aid to schools, including Chinese private schools, national type secondary schools, Chinese national type schools, kindergartens, and private schools. Meanwhile, assistance to religious bodies, namely churches, temples, and shrines involved an allocation of RM24.9 million. 'As a caring and fair government, we will continue to provide assistance and allocations to non-Muslim schools and religious bodies in the state. 'The assistance is also sign and proof that the GRS state government is serious and sincere in helping all levels of society regardless of race and religion,' he said when officiating the 2021 Kota Kinabalu Christmas celebration (KKCC) at Padang Merdeka, last night. The KKCC has been jointly organised since 2005 by Dewan Bandaraya Kota Kinabalu (DBKK) and the Sabah Council of Churches (SCC), on a rotation basis. After a break in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Roman Catholic Church is organising it this year, supported by the Protestant Church in Sabah. Hajiji said the state was committed to ensuring the people's unity, racial harmony, and strong religious tolerance in the state would continue to last. 'Any action that could affect the unity of the people and stability of the government, must be avoided to enable us to realise the development agenda of the Sabah Maju Jaya (SMJ) Roadmap effectively to further improve the economy and drive development and progress in the state.' Hajiji said the state always supports the organisation of festivals, carnivals and programmes that lead to the strengthening of unity among the people of various races, ethnicities, and religions in Sabah. 'The organisation of the Christmas festival can further enhance unity, tolerance and mutual respect among Sabahans of various races, ethnicities, and religions. 'Indeed, this kind of spirit has long been practised in Sabah and it is also in line with the concept of Keluarga Malaysia (Malaysian Family) introduced by Prime Minister Datuk Seri Ismail Sabri Yaakob,' he added. Hajiji also called on the people to continue to work together to ensure social prosperity is maintained and enhanced for the benefit of all. He said the cooperation and support of the people will contribute to the success of all policies and programmes that the government implements under the SMJ Roadmap development plan. Touching on the Christmas festivities to be celebrated by Christians soon, he said it was an important and sacred event celebrating the birth of Jesus. 'Christmas is also a time for ourselves for self-reflection and gratitude. It is also a time to remember those less fortunate than us, who are facing difficult times as a result of this pandemic. Let us together remember them in prayer and together help as much as we can,' he said. 

KUALA LUMPUR: For the second straight day, Malaysia has breached the 5,000 threshold of new Covid-19 cases. Health director-general Tan Sri Dr Noor Hisham Abdullah said the country logged 5,446 new infections as of noon today, pushing the nation's total caseload to 2,678,465. This is an increase from yesterday's 5,020 reported cases. Of today's new cases, 5,426 were local transmissions while 20 were imported cases.  'Category 1 and 2 patients make up 98.4 per cent (5,358) of today's new infections. The remaining 1.6 per cent or 88 cases, are Category 3, 4 and 5 cases,' he said in a statement today.  Dr Noor Hisham also said there were 419 patients currently being treated in the intensive care units nationwide, of whom 324 are confirmed Covid-positive and the others categorised as suspected, probable and under investigation. Of those in ICU, 232 are on ventilator support. These comprise 147 confirmed Covid-19 cases and 85 classified as patients under investigation or suspected to have the virus. Dr Noor Hisham said 28 people succumbed to the virus yesterday, four of whom were brought-in-dead cases. Meanwhile, he said 5,427 recoveries were recorded today, raising the recovery tally to 2,586,822. Dr Noor Hisham also said the ministry had detected 17 new clusters, bringing the cumulative number of active clusters to 254. As of yesterday, the country's Covid-19 infectivity rate (Rt) stood at 0.98. Perlis reported the highest Rt value at 1.07 followed by Penang and Negri Sembilan at 1.02 each; Pahang (1.01); and Melaka (1.0).  Labuan, Perak, Kuala Lumpur, Selangor and Kedah each recorded Rt values of 0.98; followed by Terengganu and Johor (0.97); and Kelantan (0.95).  States with Rt value below the 0.9 level were Putrajaya at 0.89, Sabah (0.88) and Sarawak (0.7). #kw Covid-19, cases, dr noor hisham abdullah, infections, recoveries, death, fatalities, ventilator 

KUCHING: Voters in the Pantai Damai state seat are eager to cast their votes today. Among them was Busri Ghazali, 67, who arrived at Sekolah Menengah Kebangsaan Tun Abang Haji Openg in Petra Jaya as early as 7.15am. In arriving early, he became the first voter to cast the vote, as soon as the polling centre opened at 7.30 am.  He said the voting process was smooth, despite the standard operating procedures being put in place.  'The polling centre workers were very accommodating, explaining to me the processes and guidelines,' he said when met today.  Busri said he came early as his wife will be casting her vote at a different polling centre.  'I will have to send her after this,' he said.  There are a total of 20,474 voters set to cast their votes for the Pantai Damai state seat. The state seat is seeing a straight fight between Gabungan Parti Sarawak candidate Datuk Dr Abdul Rahman Junaidi and Parti Sarawak Bersatu candidate Mahmud Sabli. Rahman, who is the Parti Pesaka Bumiputera Bersatu (PBB) vice president, won the state seat under the Barisan Nasional (BN) ticket with 3,315 majority votes in the 2001 Sarawak Election.  He then defended the seat in the 2006, 2011 and 2016 state polls. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Feb 16 — Health Minister Khairy Jamaluddin today commended the nurse who administered the Covid-19 vaccination shot for his six-year-old son after online attacks on her professionalism. The unnamed nurse was even accused of taking out the liquid vaccine from the syringe just before administering the injection with some social media users claiming the 48-second video posted by the Health Ministry showing the vaccination process had been edited. 'I confirm that the nurse who had administered the vaccine for my son was very professional and good. The tactic of not showing the needle was effective and helped relax my son. May all doctors and nurses involved in #PICKids be protected from slanders by certain parties,' Khairy tweeted today. He also reposted a news link of the nurse explaining the inoculation process on a child while performing the deed. A four-minute video clip was shared on social media earlier today after the public backlash in which the nurse gave a demonstration and explanation of the Covid-19 vaccination process for children. She was heard saying that will typically show the bottle containing the liquid vaccine to the parents of the child, draw up the liquid and show them the volume in the syringe for their approval prior to injection. She said she would then chat with the child to reduce any anxiety or apprehension while delivering the shot. The nurse said she would display the syringe to the child's parent again to show that liquid was no longer inside as proof that the vaccine has been administered. She added that the process can be found online and that people should do their research. 'Please, if you do not know anything, please do not make assumptions and accusations as this involves people's lives. 'If this happens to you, you would feel uncomfortable and hurt. I am just doing my job, as smoothly as I can and to make the process comfortable for the child. I try to avoid traumatising the child,' she said in the video in response to her detractors. As of today, 246,869 children in the country have received their first Covid-19 dose, and nearly 900,000 children have been registered for vaccination through the MySejahtera application. The Health Ministry is targeting 70 per cent of eligible children to receive the first dose within the first two months and complete both doses within six months through PICKids. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Cuepacs has called out people who blamed the civil servants for the delay in helping flood victims in the Klang Valley.  Its president Datuk Adnan Mat said it was a baseless accusation as the civil servants had to follow the standard operating procedures, while the extraordinary flood this time around made it harder to execute rescue efforts.   He said the rescue operations were also made difficult with some of the victims refusing to be relocated to safety during the early period of the floods.  'Over 300 security personnel homes were also flooded and they had to leave their homes and their own family to go out to rescue other victims.  'There are also personnel who were stranded at their homes due to the floods.  'The shortcomings in rescue efforts should not be solely placed on them,' he said in a statement today.  Several states including Selangor, Kelantan and Pahang experienced massive floods last week which displaced tens of thousands from their homes. Cuepacs also urged the government to pay attention towards providing sufficient new assets to be used during rescue operations.  'Complete and suitable assets and equipment will enable rescue work to be carried out more effectively without inviting risk to the search and rescue (SAR) members themselves.' he said. Similarly, the number of SAR personnel is insufficient  and the government has yet to give approval for additional manpower, he added.  Adnan pointed out that the current SAR members could not deployed at all locations in Klang Valley.  'Cuepacs hopes all parties would support the security forces in the country.  'Our focus now is to be ready to face flood and post-flood scenarios.  'Correct the misconceptions and let us continue to channel aid in our own ways. 'At least let us not continue to complicate the task of the security forces with these baseless allegations,' he added. 

LABUAN, Dec 27 — Labuan, Malaysia's international business and financial centre has moved back into Covid-19 yellow risk zone today after successfully reporting a significant drop in new cases. Labuan Health Department director Dr Ismuni Bohari it was made possible by the systematic control and House Free from Covid-19 programme undertaken by the department, as well as the Covid-19 green eco-system programme, dedication and teamwork of the healthcare personnel against the pandemic. 'Our focus now is to return Labuan into a green zone in the interest of Labuan's economy and domestic tourism,' he told Bernama today.  As such, he urged people at all levels especially the business community and travellers to continue adhering to standard operating procedures (SOP) to curb the spread of Covid-19. Dr Ismuni said Labuan has recorded only eight cases on Dec 20, Dec 21 (six), Dec 22 (seven), Dec 23 (seven), Dec 24 (four), Dec 25 (two) and six cases yesterday (Dec 26). 'Yellow zone means Covid-19 spread is moderate, but there is still a risk of infections, as such, extra precaution of physical distancing SOP is still needed,' he said. Dr Ismuni said a handfull of healthcare personnel is still stationed at the Labuan Airport and two Labuan ferry terminals to issue Covid-19 advisory notice and monitor the inflow and outflow of travellers. 'We are also still monitoring 54 active cases, with 19 of them being imported cases,' he added. Areas are classified as 'red zones' when 41 or more Covid-19 cases are registered there for a 14-day period, while 'yellow zones' are areas where one to 40 cases are registered, and 'green zones' are areas where there are no reported cases of Covid-19 

KUALA LUMPUR, Dec 3 — Kampung Batu Puteh of Sabah's Lower Kinabatangan River was awarded the inaugural Best Tourism Village Award by the United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) in Madrid, Spain yesterday. The official announcement and awards ceremony yesterday was attended by Minister of Tourism Arts and Culture Datuk Seri Nancy Shukri and Chairman of the Batu Puteh Community Ecotourism Cooperative Abdul Sanih Nasri, who received the award from UNWTO secretary-general, Zurab Pololikashvili. The Batu Puteh community is made up of local rural people, fisherfolk and farmers, and the ministry, in a statement today, said the village-based community cooperative, which encompasses a number of ecotourism ventures and conservation initiatives, has more than 350 members and cooperative shareholders. The joint venture led by the Model Ecologically Sustainable Community and Tourism (Mescot) together with the award-winning Miso Walai Homestay offers an organised community-based cultural tourism experience, the statement said. Following the prestigious award, Nancy said that Batu Puteh is a successful model of Responsible Rural Tourism, Ecotourism and Community Based Tourism, which Malaysia continues to promote extensively. 'This tourism niche is one of the country's main areas of strength considering the abundance of natural assets, heritage and cultural diversity with which we are blessed,' Nancy said. For Malaysia, she said the global pandemic crisis had presented an opportunity for a new beginning as there is a rising interest in 'second city' travel and the exploration of lesser-known destinations. 'I believe this is the best time to promote hidden gems in our countryside, as tourists are expected to prefer nature-based destinations with a laid-back lifestyle and plenty of fresh air,' Nancy added. The minister also commended UNWTO for its introduction of timely initiatives for such awards. 'These awards and recognition programmes will go a long way to infusing a greater sense of purpose and pride among the homegrown small and micro enterprises which make up the majority of tourism enterprises in the Asia-Pacific region,' Nancy concluded. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Feb 21 — The Malaysian United Democratic Alliance (Muda) announced it will field vice president Lim Wei Jiet, co-founder Nurafiqah M. Zulkifli, and the party's state chief Azrol Rahani in the Johor seats of Tenang, Bukit Kepong and Bukit Permai, respectively.In an online event, Muda president Syed Saddiq Syed Abdul Rahman said their selection was part of the party's commitment to have young and active leaders in service of the people of Johor.'The nomination of the three Muda leaders in this election is in line with Muda's efforts to feature young leaders, active in service politics and always focused on formulating a fair and equitable policy for Johor,' he said.  Muda's candidate for Tenang, Lim, was born in Muar, Johor, and has a master's of law from Universiti Malaya. Since 2016, he has been active in representing trade unions in various sectors such as aviation and hospitality, to defend workers' rights. Nurafiqah, 31, was also born in Muar, graduated from the International Islamic University Malaysia (IIUM) with a bachelor's in town and regional planning. She has four years' experience as the chief of staff of the Muar constituency and was the youngest person to hold such a role. Johor Muda chief Azrol Rahani was born in Masai, Pasir Gudang, where he went to SMK Pasir Gudang I. He has been active in politics since the 1998 Reformasi movement. Muda, which has allied with the Pakatan Harapan (PH) coalition for the Johor state election, is expected to contest in at least six seats. The party has already announced its secretary-general, Amira Aisya Abd Aziz, as the candidate for Puteri Wangsa in Johor. The Election Commission has set March 12 as polling day with early voting on March 8. Nomination day is set for February 26. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Any decision to grant a loan to an individual or entity is not determined by the Finance Ministry or shareholders, but by the banking institutions themselves.  Finance Minister Tengku Datuk Seri Zafrul Tengku Abdul Aziz said this in response to criticism levelled against the government regarding the issue of Genting Hong Kong Ltd (Genting HK) obtaining RM2.5 billion in unsecured loans from three Malaysian banks.  'Each bank has its own due diligence and credit evaluation assessment done by the respective credit committees to assess the ability of any prospective borrower to repay their loans.    'Based on policy terms, Bank Negara Malaysia has a set of guidelines that need to be adhered to. As long as banks follow these guidelines, they are free to approve loans at their discretion,' Tengku Zafrul said in a post on his official Facebook today.  The Finance Minister's clarification came two days after opposition leader Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim posed questions to the ministry on how Genting HK could have easily obtained unsecured loans.   The cruise operator filed for bankruptcy earlier this month, and it was reported that Maybank, CIMB and RHB Bank were among some of the company's chief creditors, with a combined exposure of US$600 million (RM2.5 billion).  Anwar also questioned why Permodalan Nasional Bhd (PNB), Khazanah, and the Employees Provident Fund (EPF), which are the largest shareholders of these three banks, allowed the loans to be approved.  Responding to the question, Tengku Zafrul said shareholders are not involved with the daily operations of the banks as that responsibility falls upon their respective management.  'If the Finance Minister or shareholders interfere in the daily affairs of banks in Malaysia, this is clearly something that is not correct in terms of governance.  'I am sure, as a former Finance Minister Datuk Seri Anwar is also aware of the difference between the roles of board members and company management,' Tengku Zafrul said.  He added that the loans obtained by Genting HK were not something that is unusual in the banking sector.   He said banks could approve loans based on their willingness to take risks at the internal level, credit assessment that meets criteria, and approval based on the internal governance process.   'When Covid-19 struck the country, many companies that depend on tourism were affected, and this is something that cannot be expected at the time the loan was approved.   'In the case of the Genting HK, the loan was approved before the Covid-19 pandemic, and it is a company involved in the leisure sector or tourism,' he said.   Genting HK filed to wind up the company last week after it warned of a potential cross-default amounting to US$2.78 billion (about RM11.66 billion) due to the insolvency of its indirect wholly-owned German-based subsidiary MV Werften Holdings Ltd as negotiations with the German government to rescue the unit had failed.  Genting HK is controlled by Tan Sri Lim Kok Thay, who owns 75.5 per cent of the company.  Tengku Zafrul also reminded critics on the issue that not only local banks granted the loans to Genting HK, but also foreign banks.   'All these banks are also required to comply with internal guidelines as well as the guidelines of their respective central banks before granting loans.   'Does Datuk Seri (Anwar) want to give the impression that all the banks from abroad have also acted recklessly in providing loans to Genting HK? 

KUALA LUMPUR: The government is bracing for a spike in Covid-19 daily cases up to 22,000 by end of March this year.   According to a tweet by Health director-general Tan Sri Dr Noor Hisham Abdullah, he said this was the projection based on the current infectivity rate which continued upward to 1.20 as of yesterday. (Feb 5).  'Hence the onus is on us to comply to all the public health and social measures plus increasing vaccination and booster shot coverage to reduce the transmission and lower the Ro/Rt to less than 1,' he said today.   As of yesterday, the highest Rt value was reported in Perlis at 1.49.   The infectivity rate in Sabah was 1.41; Putrajaya at 1.29; Kedah at 1.22; Selangor at 1.19; Penang and Sarawak at 1.17;  Johor was 1.16; Pahang at 1.14; Terengganu at 1.13; Kuala Lumpur at 1.12; and Melaka at 1.11.   States with infectivity below 1.1 are Negri Sembilan and Perak at 1.1; and Kelantan at 1.08;   No Rt value was assigned for Labuan with 15 cases. 

KUCHING, Jan 9 — The State Disaster Management Committee (SDMC) will convene soon to deliberate on the standard operating procedures (SOP) for this coming Lunar New Year, said Datuk Seri Dr Sim Kui Hian. The Deputy Chief Minister and SDMC advisor said the committee will take into account the input from local specialists before making any decision for the SOP this festive season. 'Datuk Amar Douglas Uggah has been reappointed as the SDMC chairman. Very soon, we will have a meeting to decide on the SOP for this Chinese New Year. 'Our local specialists will look at projections before SDMC makes any decision. People's safety is of paramount importance to us,' he said when met by reporters after performing an eye-dotting ceremony at the Tua Pek Kong Temple here today. The Chinese community across the globe is ringing in the Year of the Tiger on February 1. Dr Sim, who is also Minister for Public Health, Housing and Local Government, said the SOP for this Lunar New Year should inform all whether the traditional lion dance performances will be permitted. According to him, SDMC's decision is not a political decision but more on the healthcare needs and safety of the people. Based on the new daily infections of late, he said Sarawak seems to be doing well but the state will not be complacent over its fight against the pandemic. Last year alone, Dr Sim said at least 1,280 individuals passed away due to Covid-19. 'This figure does not include those who died not directly due to Covid-19. If we were to include those who had died not directly due to Covid-19, the number would be a few thousands.' He said the community must continue to comply with the SOP as they learn to live with the virus. 'In this ongoing fight against the pandemic, we must all stay alive,' he added. Meanwhile, Chinese Martial Art Association (CMAA) chairman Chester Lim said they have unveiled five new lions for the coming Lunar New Year celebration. According to him, these lions are exclusive models with traditional designs and finishing. 'Each and every one of the lions are of colours that are representation of the various heroes from the Three Kingdoms era mainly Liu Bei (rainbow colours), Guan Yu (red), Zhang Fei (black) and the characteristics of brotherhood, honour, valour, justice, benevolence, loyalty and righteousness associated with them.' Lim added that CMAA, since its inauguration in 1974, had been unveiling new lions for Lunar New Year on an annual basis. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 13 — The National Unity Minister Datuk Halimah Mohamed Sadique said standard operating procedures (SOP) for Thaipusam celebrations have been drawn up based on recommendations submitted by temple management as well as health risk assessments and measures to prevent Covid-19 transmission. She said the proposals and requests were presented to the ministry through engagement sessions with temple management of several states. She explained that all the proposals were then brought to the Covid-19 Quartet Ministers Meeting for approval based on the need to ensure public safety and health. 'However, those who were not present during the engagement sessions issued statements claiming that I had made promises regarding the SOP,' she said. She said this after checking on preparations at Sri Subramaniar Swamy Temple, Batu Caves today. Yesterday, Halimah announced the SOP which among others stipulated that only the 'paal koodam' processions (milk offerings), prayer activities and chariot processions would be allowed but the 'kavadi' ceremony was still not permitted during this year's festival. She said 'paal koodam' was allowed from tomorrow to January 19 with the number of devotees allowed to be set according to the respective temples, while prayer ceremonies would be held in sessions and movement of chariot processions should follow the set SOP. According to her, 12 prayer sessions have been set from January 16-17 and January 19 from 5am to 5pm, while 18 sessions were set for January 18 from 5am to 11pm, with the number of people allowed set according to the respective temples, which will have to be sanitised after each session. Following the announcement, allegations were hurled against the ministry claiming that it did not 'listen' to requests from Hindu devotees regarding the SOP. On the SOP at the Batu Caves temple, Halimah said the temple management would provide permission tags to adhere to the ruling that only 6,000 devotees were allowed every day and only 500 individuals could attend each prayer session. 

GEORGE TOWN: Selgate Corporation Sdn Bhd, through its healthcare arm Selgate Healthcare Sdn Bhd, signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with MTT Properties and Development Sdn Bhd today to develop a private specialist hospital in Bandar Baru Air Putih, Balik Pulau. MTT is the master township developer of Botanica.CT. Selgate Healthcare was represented by its executive director Noor Hisham Mohd Ghouth and chief executive officer Dr Muaz Omar while MTT Group of Companies group chairman Datuk Seri Kenny Ong Kean Lee and chief executive officer Khoo Teck Chong signed on behalf of MTT. The signing ceremony was witnessed by Chief Minister Chow Kon Yeow. Speaking at the signing ceremony, Noor Hisham said this partnership signified a historic milestone for Selgate to build capacity and capability by having a new stream of services to strengthen its financial footing via diversification of operations and revenue stream. He said the company would operate seven hospitals with approximately 1,000 beds over the next five years and the first hospital in Rawang is expected to start operations early next year to serve the increased demand for high-quality healthcare services. 'As for the 150-bed hospital here, it is expected to be ready in 2025. 'It is our vision to be one of the leading private healthcare operators in the country and we are striving to provide quality healthcare that is affordable and able to fill up the gap in underserved areas,' he said. Ong, meanwhile, said the private specialist hospital would serve to enhance its first integrated aged care facility, Eden@Botanica.CT, which will be launched later this year. 'We have allocated five acres of land for our first venture into healthcare and is a collaboration that will provide the first private specialise hospital in Balik Pulau. 'The partnership with Selgate Healthcare marks a historic milestone towards becoming a fully self-sustaining township,' he said, adding that the hospital would not only be able to provide quality healthcare to the township, but also extend to Balik Pulau and other neighbouring communities. Meanwhile, Chow expressed confidence that the addition of this private hospital to the 18 existing private hospitals in the state would further solidify the state's position as the top destination in Malaysia's healthcare travel industry. According to the Malaysia Healthcare Travel Industry Blueprint 2021-2025, Penang leads the way in healthcare travel revenue, earning RM750 million from 500,000 patients who flew into the state in 2019 and was named the 'Most Established State in Healthcare Travel'. 'As Penang continues to become an ageing nation, the pressure on the provision of good healthcare services will continue to build. The state's population is also expected to double over the next 10 years and the demand for good healthcare services and facilities will continue to rise. 'Therefore, the initiative of the private sector to invest in public healthcare services is invaluable,' he said. 

KUALA LUMPUR: All Keretapi Tanah Melayu Berhad (KTMB) passenger commuter train services from the Batu Tiga station to the Port Klang station and vice versa are suspended due to floods and landslides between the Padang Jawa and Shah Alam sectors.  All cargo train services from Port Klang will also be suspended temporarily until the flood water level at the Batu Tiga station recedes and tracks in the Padang Jawa and Shah Alam sectors recover.  KTMB Chief Operating Officer Mohd Zain Mat Taha in a statement said for the Port Klang - Tanjung Malim - Port Klang KTM Komuter service, trains from KL Sentral to Port Klang will end at the Subang Jaya station and turn back to KL Sentral.  Affected passengers can get a full fare refund or change their travel date via the KITS e-wallet or at the counters according to the terms and conditions.  Heavy rain since yesterday has also affected several passenger train service operations in the East Coast and Klang Valley sectors due to the floods. He said strong winds had caused trees to fall and damaged overhead line equipment, with tracks flooded in some places causing delays as well as train cancellations.  'KTMB had to cancel some train services for the safety of passengers. Therefore, we apologise for the inconvenience,' said Mohd Zain.  Meanwhile, all ETS services will operate as usual and the KTM Intercity Ekspres Rakyat Timuran service, train services number 26 and 27 of the Kempas Baru route will operate as usual.  Any latest developments will be informed from time to time, he said.  

KUALA LUMPUR, Dec 13 — Sarawak DAP MPs will forgo the Sarawak state election campaign tomorrow in order to take part in the voting of the Malaysia Agreement 1963 (MA63) constitutional amendment in Parliament said its chief Stampin MP Chong Chien Jen. He said despite the heavy schedule of campaigning, he, Bandar Kuching MP Dr Kelvin Yii, Mas Gading MP Mordi Bimol, Sarikei MP Wong Ling Biu, Lanang MP Alice Lau and Sibu MP Oscar Ling — all from the party will travel to Kuala Lumpur to ensure the amendment — that needs two-thirds of Parliamentary majority happens. 'We will on Tuesday support the amendment. We will support things that benefit Sarawak,' he told a press conference in Kitang DAP office here today. November 3, the government through the de facto law minister Datuk Seri Wan Junaidi Tuanku Jaafar tabled the Constitution (Amendment) Bill 2021 for first reading in the Dewan Rakyat which, among others, seeks to insert mention of the states of Malaya and the Borneo states.  However, Chong said he was disappointed that the government has also rejected the proposal to further devolve federal powers over Sabah and Sarawak on Healthcare and Education. Chong, Kota Kinabalu MP Chan Foong Hin and Tuaran MP Datuk Seri Madius Tangau have jointly submitted a notice of motion to the Speaker to incorporate an amendment to the Ninth Schedule of the Federal Constitution List IIIA which is the Concurrent List for States of Sabah and Sarawak to include healthcare and education to the list. 'Our proposed amendment is to devolve the power over healthcare and education to the State so that the State Government can also legislate on matters over healthcare and education. This is also in line with what the people of Sabah and Sarawak want all this while. 'However, despite all said by GPS and SUPP for autonomy over healthcare and education, our motion was rejected because the Federal Cabinet refused to allow our motion to be tabled in Parliament and thus the rejection of my motion by the Speaker,' he said while also producing Speaker Tan Sri Azhar Azizan Harun's letter dated December 9 rejecting the proposal on the grounds that it needed 'more discussions between the federal and state governments.' Meanwhile, Dr Kelvin who was also present in the press conference also recalled the date April 9, 2019, when then Pakatan Harapan (PH) government brought the constitutional amendment to the Parliament which failed as it was not supported by Barisan Nasional and GPS MPs. He said if GPS then supported it, amendments would have already been approved two years earlier, rather than only looked at after the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between the government and PH. 'Undeniably, it was a huge first step initiated by the then Pakatan Harapan (PH) Federal Government to right the wrongs of Barisan Nasional's (BN) 1976 Federal Constitution amendment by restoring the original spirit of MA63 and realising the wishes of the people to reinstate the status of equal partners to Sabah and Sarawak. 'Yet, what was supposed to be a historic moment for the nation did not come to fruition as a number of elected representatives from Gabungan Parti Sarawak (GPS) alongside their allies from Umno and PAS opted to put political interest above the interest of Sarawak,' he said. The Batu Kawah state seat candidate also called for Wan Junaidi, himself a Sarawak GPS MP Even so to expedite the amendments to give autonomy of healthcare and education, which will be the building block for us to get autonomy in health and education in Sarawak. 'It is as clear as day that Sarawakians could have benefitted from this amendment two years ago and follow-up negotiations to restore the rights of Sarawakians could have been underway at a faster pace instead of the delay that was experienced in the last 32 months  'Tomorrow, the MA63 will again get its time of day in the Dewan Rakyat to be debated. While I will be pushing for more especially the two main items mentioned above, I will not jeopardise any first steps to restore our rights under the MA63,' he said. 

GEORGE TOWN, Jan 12 — The feasibility study for the controversial undersea tunnel will be formally presented to the state executive council in February, said Penang Chief Minister Chow Kon Yeow. Speaking to reporters after flagging off a walk and ride event at the newly completed Bukit Kukus paired road, he said the feasibility report is now ready to be presented to the state exco for approval. 'We are expecting the project delivery partner to present it next month,' he said. Chow said the study was already completed but it has yet to be formally presented to the state exco. The undersea tunnel and three highways project delivery partner, Consortium Zenith Construction (CZC), completed the study at the end of 2020 after a four-year delay. It was reported that the full report of the completed feasibility study was submitted to the state government in December 2020. The feasibility study on the tunnel started in December 2014 and was supposed to be completed in 2016 but it was delayed due to various reasons. CZC presented the draft feasibility report in September 2019 and it was amended with improvements based on reviews by various relevant agencies. As for the Bukit Kukus paired road project, Chow said it will be officially opened to traffic tomorrow. 'We are relieved that this project is completed and now ready to open despite the delays and challenges it went through that included the Covid-19 pandemic, opposition from non-governmental organisations and the landslide in the initial construction period,' he said. Chow will be officiating the opening of the paired road tomorrow morning. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Feb 17 — A total of 336,848 or 11.5 per cent of senior citizens in the country tested positive for Covid-19 as of Feb 7 this year, said Health director-general Tan Sri Dr Noor Hisham Abdullah. In a post on Facebook today, he said 16,646 or 61.3 per cent of 32,034 deaths due to Covid-19 in the country also involved senior citizens. 'For vaccination, 2,258,521 or 67.7 per cent of the senior citizens had received the booster dose, while 3,335,309 or 96 per cent of the population were fully vaccinated. 'Protect the senior citizens from Covid-19, let's complete the vaccination and get the booster dose,' he wrote. 

SHAH ALAM, Dec 8 — The Selangor State Legislative Assembly (DUN) was told today that the state government lost more than RM50 million in revenue due to the recent exemption of entertainment tax, said Mentri Besar Datuk Seri Amirudin Shari. Speaking during the winding-up session on the state budget 2021 debate, he said that the shortfall in revenue would have a big impact on the state development. 'Thank you to Kinrara assemblyman, Ng Sze Han, for explaining about the entertainment tax we have experienced a loss in revenue due to the tax exemption for cinema opearators, for example,' he said. It was reported that the Selangor government had agreed to fully exempt the entertainment tax imposed on entrance tickets to theme parks in the state, from March 18, 2020 to December 31 this year, after taking into account the burden faced by the parties involved following the enforcement of the movement control order. Earlier, Ng, who is also the state local government, public transport, and new village development committee chairman, during the same winding-up session responded to a question on whether the state government had plans to extend the tax exemption until next year, posed by Jamaliah Jamaluddin (PH-Bandar Utama). Meanwhile, state public health, unity, and women and family development committee chairman, Dr Siti Mariah Mahmud said as of November 30, some 88.4 per cent of the adult Orang Asli population in the state have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, under the Selangor's vaccination outreach programme. She said based on data from the Selangor Health Department (JKNS), 86.9 per cent of the Orang Asli community had completed their vaccination including recipients of the CanSino single-dose vaccine. Dr Siti Mariah was replying to a question from Lim Yi Wei (PH-Kampung Tunku) who asked about the state government's efforts to increase the vaccination rate among Orang Asli community in Selangor. Earlier, the Selangor State Assembly passed a motion to allocate a sum of RM1.123 billion for the state's development expenditure next year. The sitting continues tomorrow. 

IPOH: The Perak state government today urged the people not to panic over the first case of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 in the country, involving a student of a private higher learning institution here.  Perak Health, Science, Environment and Green Technology Committee chairman Mohd Akmal Kamarudin said the state government acknowledged the case as mentioned by the Health Minister, Khairy Jamaludin. 'We hope the people in the state will remain calm and not panic with the first case reported.  'I urge the people not to ignore and take this matter lightly. Everyone should continue complying with the standard operating procedures set by the (health) ministry.  'People should avoid crowded places, always wear their face masks and wash their hands,' Akmal said in a statement on Facebook today.  Khairy in a press conference today said Malaysia recorded its first case of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 from a 19-year-old foreign student who  attends a private higher learning institution here. The student, who had returned here from South Africa had a test sample which was flagged as the Omicron variant of concern on Thursday (Dec 2) via genome typing assays. She had arrived in the country via Singapore on Nov 19 and had undergone screening upon arrival at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport.  The student, who was asymptomatic, has completed her 10-day quarantine period. All her close contacts have been tested and found negative for the virus. 

KOTA KINABALU: Parti Warisan Sabah has denied that the controversial Nature Conservation Agreement (NCA) had been tabled and approved for implementation in the Sabah Legislative Assembly. Its president Datuk Seri Mohd Shafie Apdal was referring to an article by Al Jazeera titled 'Very hush-hush: Borneo's US$80bn carbon deal stokes controversy' published on Feb 2. The article mentioned a state assemblyman who claimed the NCA had been tabled and approved.  'This is an untrue statement and confuses the people of Sabah and the international community. 'This irresponsible statement could make all state assemblymen, including those from the opposition bloc, bear the liability of this one -sided agreement. This is not acceptable at all,' he said in a statement, adding that no motion paper was brought by the government in the last assembly sitting on the agreement. Shafie, who is the opposition leader in the Sabah Legislative Assembly, had on Dec 6 last year raised the issue for the first time questioning the propriety of the Sabah government in signing the agreement which is seen as biased. He said the fact that state government did not make a public consultation before entering the agreement was questionable. The former chief minister also argued that the duration of the agreement for 100 years has resulted in up to two million hectares of Sabah's forests being handed over to Hock Standard Pte Ltd without due diligence. The Singapore-based company, which will benefit about 30 per cent of the trade deal profits, has never operated any business in the carbon credit industry. Shafie added that Warisan is ready to support efforts to maintain Sabah's natural resource reserves via the sale of carbon credits, but it must be done with full openness, integrity and taking into account the interests of indigenous peoples. 'As an alternative, the state government should consider carbon capture, utilisation and storage (CCUS) strategies that can be practised in Sabah as has been done around the world. 'This is to balance the decarbonisation efforts by giant companies and address the issue of climate change,' he said, urging the state government to cancel the agreement. Shafie also urged any representative of the Sabah government to refrain from being a broker or mediator in any international agreement whose validity is in doubt.  'We do not want this NCA to turn into a scandal that could damage Malaysia's image in the eyes of the world.' 

KUALA LUMPUR: PLUS Malaysia Bhd says it has recorded an encouraging migration rate of 10 per cent radio-frequency identification (RFID) transactions after its implementation across the entire North-South Expressway on Jan 15. PLUS' announcement followed reports that the system had received backlash from the public over massive traffic congestion at certain toll booths on Monday. The highway operator, in a statement today, said it appreciated the feedback and public's views on the congestion issue that arose at the toll plazas and were making improvements based on the feedbacks. PLUS said it had doubled up the teams to assist customers at the toll plazas, as well as improving the visibility of directional signages to increase familiarity of RFID lanes. 'Highway customers are advised to ensure proper use of the lanes according to the guidance on the signage provided. Highway customers who experience detection issues at the RFID lane need not worry as toll personnel will be on hand with a handheld device to scan the RFID tag. 'Should the tag still remain undetectable, a coupon for a full detection diagnostic at the nearest Touch 'n Go fitment centre will be provided. If the RFID tag still have detection issues after the test, Touch 'n Go will replace the RFID tag for free,' it said in a statement today. Yesterday, Works Minister Datuk Seri Fadillah Yusof directed PLUS to find a solution to the congestion issue. 'I have contacted them (PLUS and TnG) after receiving complaints, and I have asked them to explain to the public and come out with a solution (to the problem) arising from the implementation of RFID. 'When it is a pioneering project, it will face certain issues that need to be solved,' he was quoted as saying after observing the opening of the Dengkil Bridge at FT31 (Jalan Banting Semenyih) on Monday. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Engineering and project management consultant HSS Engineers Bhd has obtained an extended appointment for a water treatment plant upgrade in Kubang Pasu, Kedah. The company said its associate SMHB Sdn Bhd (SMHB) had today obtained the extended appointment by Kedah state government through Syarikat Air Darul Aman Sdn Bhd (SADA) for the upgrading of the water treatment plant. Executive vice chairman Tan Sri Ir. Kuna Sittampalam said the company had begun the new year by reinforcing its leadership in providing engineering consultancy services for critical areas of water, rail and road transport sectors, on top of also entering into new areas of growth such as telecommunications.  'We believe that this would set the tone for our growth path going forward,' he added. SMHB previously entered into a principal agreement with SADA to provide design services for the project from December 1, 2016 to January 1, 2022, with the original contract value of RM16.0 million. On Jan 11 this year, SMHB received the supplemental agreement extending its  appointment to encompass the construction stage of the project from  Jan 2 2022 to August 28 2025, with a revised contract value of RM22.7 million.  HEB said the revised contract is expected to contribute positively to the company from financial years ending December 31, 2022 to December 31, 2025. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Censof Holdings Bhd's (Censof) net profit increased 31 per cent to RM2.63 million in the third quarter (Q3) ended March 31, 2022, from RM2.01 million a year ago. The technology holdings company said this was achieved on the back of a revenue of RM21.3 million for Q3 2022. For the cumulative nine months (9M) period, revenue increased by 18.7 per cent to RM65.2 million from RM55.0 million in the previous year. Despite the higher revenue, the net profit was lower at RM6.51 million from RM14.09 million last year.  This was mainly due to recognising non-recurring gain on disposal and fair value adjustment of short-term investments of RM2.1 million and RM9.4 million, respectively, in 9M FY21. Censof's financial position as of December 31, 2021, remained healthy with cash and bank balances, including fixed deposit and money market funds of RM27.3 million. Net assets per share attributable to ordinary equity holders of the company was 16.26 sen. Group managing director Ameer Shaik Mydin said Censof's third-quarter financial performance had demonstrated significant momentum as the company continues to stride till the end of its financial year. Ameer said the company has been making significant progress in its plans to capitalise on the industry's appetite to adopt digitalisation by the government and commercial sectors. 'We have been making progress by laying out the foundation to enhance the digital technology market through our joint venture with Cloocus Co Ltd to develop and operate Microsoft's cloud management in Malaysia. 'During the quarter, we successfully secured an iPayment contract worth RM13.5 million to facilitate cashless payments and collections for all government services by 2022,' he said. Meanwhile, Ameer said over the past few months, the company has undergone various exciting and positive developments. He said the company's recent acquisition of the 51 per cent equity stake in Cognitive Consulting Sdn Bhd had proven its commitment to grow the Digital Technology segment. 'As such, I am extremely optimistic of the company's prospects with our list of upcoming plans and developments at hand,' he added. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 11 ― The ringgit opened higher against the US dollar today, driven by better-than-expected economic data released by the Department of Statistics Malaysia (DoSM), a dealer said. At 9.03am, the local currency was trading at 4.1955/2005 against the greenback compared with 4.1990/2020 at yesterday's close. DoSM yesterday announced that the country's Industrial Production Index (IPI) increased 9.4 per cent year-on-year in November 2021 due to the expansion in the manufacturing, electricity and mining indices. ActivTrades trader Dyogenes Rodrigues Diniz said the newly released economic data may have been the main driver of the ringgit's appreciation versus the greenback. 'From a technical standpoint, it is possible that the ringgit will rally against the US dollar to test the 4.2450 region in the coming days, where it is likely to encounter temporary resistance,' he told Bernama. At the opening, the ringgit was traded mostly higher against a basket of major currencies except the Japanese yen, against which it eased to 3.6391/6434 from yesterday's close of 3.6302/6331. The local unit appreciated versus the Singapore dollar to 3.0959/0998 from of 3.0987/1013 yesterday, gained vis-a-vis the British pound to 5.7004/7072 from 5.7018/7059, and rose against the euro to 4.7552/7608 from 4.7554/7588 previously. 

KUALA LUMPUR:  Bursa Malaysia has rejected Sarawak Consolidated Industries Bhd's (SCIB) request for extension of time (EOT) to complete its 2021 annual report. The civil engineering specialist, in a statement yesterday, said this would result in the suspension of its shares on November 9 until further notice. On October 8, SCIB had sought for an EOT up to December 31 this year to complete its audit of the financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2021 to be included in the 2021 annual report. The company said it was affected by the change of external auditor and the movement restrictions in Malaysia and overseas due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Group managing director and chief executive officer Rosland Othman said SCIB was committed to exhaust all efforts to ensure it adhere to relevant regulations and meet the deadline. 'Nevertheless, we are unable to meet the deadline because it is too tight, even with (new auditor) Nexia SSY PLT fully committed to finishing the audit.  'We had submitted an appeal to Bursa but have received further queries from it on October 26, 2021 seeking some clarifications on the appeal,' he said. Roslan said the updated appeal had been submitted to Bursa on the same day. 'In July 2021, we have received a notice in writing from KPMG PLT on their resignation, and from then we immediately sent a Request for Proposal (RFP).' 'However, the process of getting the new auditors, Nexia onboard is tedious, and we did our utmost to complete the process in time.' Rosland reiterated that SCIB was fully committed to meeting the deadline, with Nexia working to complete the audit in accordance to the relevant accounting and auditing standards. 'Even though we are met with a setback, SCIB is not deterred. We will continue to comply with the regulations set as well as focusing on the best practice for this situation.  'We would like to assure everyone that our business operations will be resumed as usual, as we sort this matter,' he added. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Bank Muamalat Malaysia Bhd has won an award under the 'Best Deals by Country' category at The Asset Triple A Islamic Finance Award 2021.  Under the category, Bank Muamalat said it was recognised for its role as the joint lead manager for the Malaysia's landmark sukuk deal issued by the largest local development financial institution, which clinched the award under the 'Best Bank Sukuk' category.  Bank Muamalat president and chief executive officer Khairul Kamarudin said the award reflected the continued trust and confidence of Bank Muamalat's clients for its significant role in managing the fundraising exercise on their behalf.  'We appreciate all our clients' trust and confidence in us to deliver despite these unprecedented times. The recognition demonstrates our team's ability to serve our clients consistently despite the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic,' he said in a statement today. The Asset Triple A Islamic Finance Awards is the industry's prestigious award and pre-eminent global recognition that recognises financial industry players and deals that defined the industry during the review period. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Leading integrated industrial space solutions provider AME Elite Consortium Bhd posted revenue of RM95.6 million and net profit of RM10.7 million for the third quarter (Q3) ended 31 December 2021 (FY22) compared to a revenue of RM121.7 million and net profit of RM15.1 million same quarter last year. This was mainly due to the lower contribution from property development, construction, and engineering services segments on timing of project completion and stage of works. Nevertheless, the company's property investment and management services segment recorded 18.9 per cent higher revenue of RM10.8 million in Q3 FY22 compared to RM9.1 million previously. The enhanced performance was achieved on the back of increased occupancy rates and rental income from AME Elite's i-Stay workers' dormitories, as well as higher rental income from additional units of leasing industrial properties, both of which cater to the company's expanding i-Park clientele. Meanwhile, for the nine month (9M) FY22, AME Elite's revenue and net profit amounted to RM258.7 million and RM27.7 million respectively, lower compared to the previous year's revenue of RM297.3 million and net profit of RM31.9 million, mainly due to restricted business activities and limited manpower capacity during the movement control orders. The restrictions caused delays in project completion and timing of projects in the company's property development, construction, and engineering services segments. However, AME Elite's property investment and management services segment recorded revenue of RM32.0 million, an increase of 20.5 per cent from RM26.6 million previously, on increased rental income from leasing properties as well as workers' dormitories. Moving on, AME Elite targets to deliver higher new industrial property sales, on expected reopening of international borders and returning economic sentiment. AME's i-Parks in Senai Airport City and Indahpura, which are home to multinational and domestic firms, registered RM131.0 million sales for the 9M FY22, an increase of 7.0 per cent from RM122.4 million in the same period last year. Group managing director Kelvin Lee Chai said the company is on track to deliver sales growth in FY22, given the strong enquiries and bookings received to date. 'Notably, our 9M FY22 sales have reached approximately 90 per cent of our full year sales in FY20 and FY21, supporting the positive outlook. 'With the increasing requirements for industrial space solutions, this is an opportune time for us to embark on our new industrial park development in SiLC, Johor to support our growth in the coming years. 'We expect to launch this new 169.8-acre development with an estimated gross development value (GDV) of RM1.5 billion in the first half of 2022, for which we have already secured interest from multiple domestic and foreign companies. 'In the immediate term, we have fully resumed operations with full workforce under the National Recovery Plan (NRP). Hence we intend to make significant progress for i-Park@Senai Airport City (Phase 3) which will improve our profitability going forward,' Lee said. Lee added that a major pull factor for its i-Parks was the company's integrated model which incorporates workers' accommodation on top of industrial buildings. This was further supported by the higher emphasis on employees' well-being and Covid-19 compliance standard operating procedures. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Feb 12 ― Bursa Malaysia is expected to continue its uptrend next week on improved sentiment despite regional market volatility, an analyst said. Rakuten Trade Sdn Bhd vice-president of equity research Thong Pak Leng said the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBM KLCI) is expected to move in the 1,570 to 1,585 range. 'From a technical point of view, immediate resistance is unchanged at 1,600 while support is at 1,570,' he told Bernama. FBM KLCI ended the week with a third consecutive intraday high, supported by growing buying interest and bargain-hunting activities. On Friday, the benchmark index advanced by 0.56 per cent, or 8.79 points, to close at 1,578.89, lifted mainly by banking, plantation and telecommunication counters. The Department of Statistics Malaysia (DOSM) yesterday announced that Malaysia's economy grew by 3.6 per cent in the fourth quarter (Q4) of 2021, driven by the recovery in domestic demand following the resumption of economic activities. It said that overall, Malaysia's economic performance in 2021 revealed a recovery momentum with a growth of 3.1 per cent, compared to a decline of 5.6 per cent in 2020. Thong said the gross domestic product (GDP) data came in below expectations, but the prospect of the reopening of borders will be positive for other sectors. 'We expect that the economic performance in the first quarter of 2022 should be much better,' said Thong. For the week just ended, Bursa Malaysia trended mostly higher on improved sentiment and increased buying interest despite heightened market volatility in the region. On a Friday-to-Friday basis, the FBM KLCI gained 56.13 points to end the week at 1,578.89 from 1,522.76 last week. On the index board, the FBM Emas Index was up 360.85 points to 11,320.42, the FBMT100 Index added 357.80 points to 11,000.73, and the FBM Emas Shariah Index advanced 373.58 points to 12,040.39. The FBM 70 expanded 302.04 points to 13,781.29, and the FBM ACE rose 159.21 points to 6,344.95. Sector-wise, the Financial Services Index gained 510.96 points to 16,296.65, the Plantation Index added 670.56 points to 7,214.42, while the Energy Index eased 1.15 points to 788.79. The Industrial Products and Services Index climbed 7.64 points to 210.94, the Technology Index inched up 2.39 points to 83.88, and the Healthcare Index firmed 24.26 points to 2,186.72. Weekly turnover improved to 15.28 billion units worth RM12.03 billion from 5.70 billion units worth RM4.36 billion in the previous week. The Main Market advanced to 9.47 billion shares valued at RM10.72 billion versus 3.80 billion shares valued at RM3.78 billion. Warrants volume expanded to 1.74 billion units worth RM200.92 million from 589.12 million units worth RM200.11 million previously. The ACE Market volume jumped to 4.05 billion shares worth RM1.11 billion against 1.31 billion shares worth RM521.37 million in the previous week. 

KUALA LUMPUR: MPV Realty Malaysia Sdn Bhd is confident its newly launched asset-backed solution (ABS) programme will be able to ease the problem of unsold houses in Malaysia, valued at about RM19.7 billion, by attracting mainly foreign investors. David Hew Chee Seng, chief executive officer of the property trading and asset management firm, said the programme, the first of its kind in Malaysia, will attract investors that are keen to own property assets through trusts and generate income in the country with the developers involved. RKG Klozer Trust Ltd acts as a trustee for the ABS programme, facilitating the investment process and protecting the interests of investors. ''Valuation-wise, Malaysian assets are very attractive now compared to those of other countries in the region. I would say it's time to look at them. ''Our aim is to bring funds into the country and ease the developers' burden,' he told reporters after the memorandum of understanding signing with RKG, a global financial services provider, held here today. Citing data from the National Property Information Centre, Hew said there were 30,290 units of unsold completed houses as at the third quarter of 2021. Hence, he said, ABS could be a solution for the problem, especially for the unsold high-end property segment, by looking at measures and collaborations with developers and regulators to ease asset ownership among the foreigners. For a start, the programme will focus on residential units in prime areas, and it will be extended to include the commercial segment and nationwide coverage in the future. RKG vice president Previn Ramanathan said the company's involvement as a trustee would provide confidence to investors as their investments are being backed by assets. RKG, which has expertise in wealth management, is currently operating in more than 40 countries. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 10 — Former Mara Incorporated Sdn Bhd (Mara Inc) chairman Datuk Mohammad Lan Allani was today given a discharge not amounting to an acquittal (DNAA) by the Sessions Court here on two counts of money laundering charges involving RM10 million. Judge Suzana Hussin made the decision after Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) deputy public prosecutor, Allan Suman Pillai, applied for Mohammad Lan's DNAA as he would be made to face the charges again at the Kota Kinabalu Sessions Court, Sabah in February or March. Lawyer Teh See Khoon, who represented the accused, appealed for bail of RM400,000 to be reduced to RM300,000 as the prosecution dropped the two charges and his client needed the money for the bail when he would be charged again in Sabah. Allan Suman did not object to the application. The court allowed the bail to be reduced to RM300,000, and maintained the previous additional condition that the accused's passport is surrendered to the court until the disposal of the case. Meanwhile, Allan Suman also requested that the trial proceedings for 20 corruption charges against Mohamad Lan, which were scheduled to begin on January 24 at the Sessions Court here, be adjourned as the prosecution needed to update the prosecution witnesses. The court allowed the application and set a new trial date on May 23. Meanwhile, another lawyer representing Mohammad Lan, Datuk K. Kumaraendran, told reporters later that his client would be charged again in the court because the money transaction in the case involved a bank in Sabah, apart from the fact that the witnesses who will testify are also from the state. On February 5 last year, Mohammad Lan was charged with two counts of engaging in money laundering activities, by transferring RM10 million from his CIMB Bank Private Banking Portfolio account to his CIMB Bank Berhad's accounts, believed to be proceeds of illegal activities, at CIMB Bank Jalan Sagunting, Central Building, Kota Kinabalu, Sabah, on December 10, 2012. He was charged under Section Section 4 (1) of the Anti-Money Laundering and Anti -Terrorism Financing Act 2001 (Act 613) (AMLA), punishable under Section 4 (1) of the same law, which provides for a maximum fine of RM5 million or imprisonment not exceeding five years or both, if convicted. Mohamad Lan was also charged with 20 counts of corruption amounting to RM20.45 million involving property deals in Melbourne, Australia. All the offences were allegedly committed at several locations including at Maybank Mont Kiara Branch and Solaris Mont Kiara, near here, between September 2012 and July 26, 2013, and at CIMB Bank Jalan Sagunting, Central Building, Kota Kinabalu, Sabah on December 10, 2012. He was charged under Section 16 (a) (A) and Section 17 (a) of the MACC Act 2009, which carries a maximum jail term of 20 years and a fine of not less than five times the amount or value of the bribe or RM10,000 whichever is higher, upon conviction. 

KUALA LUMPUR: AirAsia Group Bhd has renamed the holding company of its airline operations to AirAsia Aviation Ltd as the low cost carrier undertakes a rapid transformation from an airline into a digital travel and lifestyle services. AirAsia Group, in a statement today, said Bo Lingam would take over as group chief executive officer of AirAsia Aviation, overseeing its four airlines (AirAsia Malaysia, AirAsia Philippines,  AirAsia Thailand and AirAsia Indonesia).  AirAsia Group is the investment holding company for the eight digital portfolio companies that leverage data and technology to deliver the best value at the lowest cost.   Its comprehensive portfolio includes AirAsia Aviation, the airasia Super App, cargo and logistics venture Teleport, BigPay financial services, the edutech arm AirAsia Academy, engineering company Asia Digital Engineering, ground services division GTR and the restaurant chain and food group called Santan.  Lingam said the structural change would facilitate strong projected growth in both airline and non-airline portfolio businesses. 'The AirAsia Aviation entity holds our existing airline investments and paves the way for new airline ventures to be formed in due course.  'We have also established a new AirAsia Consulting division tasked at reviewing new airline partnerships and franchise opportunities,' he said. Lingam said the creation of airline holding company would allow the group to focus on continuing to be the world's best low cost airline.  'We have spent the past 18 months reviewing every aspect of the operation to ensure that our airlines will return stronger than ever before.  'The world is finally opening up and we foresee a V-shaped rebound in air travel in the near future.  In Malaysia, we are already seeing huge pent up demand for air travel since the government's recent announcement of the resumption of interstate travel on October 11.' AirAsia Malaysia operates over 60 daily flights to 16 key leisure destinations and more frequencies and routes will continue to be added in response to significant consumer demand. Lingam said pleasing progress was underway in its other airlines in Thailand, Indonesia and the Philippines as services began to resume in line with accelerated vaccination rates and the easing of travel restrictions in its key markets. 'We look forward to the opening of international borders as the next key milestone. We will continue to review new markets to operate from in the future, like Cambodia for example, when we can connect Asean once again with the best value fares and lifestyle offerings,' he added. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Oct 18 — Foreign investors turned net buyers last week, with a net inflow of RM924.77 million against RM293.36 million a week ago, recording an average participation of 18.4 per cent from 19.2 per cent previously, MIDF Research said. This was the second week of net buying by foreign investors, after one week of inflow previously. 'As the market reopened last Monday, local institutions were net sellers amounting to RM154.74 million. Meanwhile, retailers and foreign investors were net buyers to the tune of RM23.30 million and RM131.43 million, respectively,' it said in its weekly fund flow report. Foreign investors were net buyers for every day of the week. The largest foreign inflow was recorded on Friday with the smallest inflow on Thursday to the tune of RM303.22 million and RM79.99 million, respectively. Separately, Bank Islam Malaysia Bhd chief economist Mohd Afzanizam Abdul Rashid said it looks like now foreign investors have been recording two consecutive weeks of net purchases. 'We believe the reopening of the economy following the uplift in the interstate travel may have been one of the main contributing factors as it will result in a more lively economic activities. 'The impact can be wide ranging to various sectors, namely the aviation, food and beverages, hotels, entertainment, retail outlets as there will be more spending among the Malaysians. Not to mention higher commodity prices would certainly improve sentiments towards oil and gas and plantation sector,' he said. As for the retailers, MIDF reported that they were net sellers for majority of the day except on Monday and Tuesday. The largest net selling by the retailers was recorded on Friday and largest net buying was on Tuesday to the tune of -RM82.15 million and RM29.16 million, respectively. Cumulatively, for the week, retailers net sold -RM78.64 million worth of equities in Bursa Malaysia. Meanwhile, local institutions recorded cumulative weekly net selling of -RM846.14 million and the local institutions were net sellers for everyday of the week with largest net selling of -RM245.86 million on Wednesday, while the smallest net outflow was on Thursday at -RM47.13 million. Cumulatively, since the beginning of 2021, retailers have been the only net buyers of our equity market to the tune of RM10.32 billion. Local institutions and foreign investors were net sellers of -RM7.56 billion and -RM2.77 billion, respectively. 'However, it is worth noting that foreign investors' net selling position continues to decline. It was -RM3.75 billion on a year-to-date basis as at end of September 2021. 'In terms of participation, the retail investors, local institutions and foreign investors recorded a weekly movement of 8.66 per cent, 11.17 per cent and 4.97 per cent, respectively, in average daily trade value,' MIDF said. Malaysia recorded inflows of foreign investors last week.along with Thailand and Indonesia among Southeast Asian countries. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Global hospitality company Hilton today announced the opening of DoubleTree by Hilton Putrajaya Lakeside, its first DoubleTree by Hilton property in the nation's administrative capital.  Managed by Hilton, the 290-room hotel is owned by Idaman Putrajaya Sdn Bhd, a statement said.  The property was previously operating as the five-star Pullman Putrajaya Lakeside resort. It was reportedly closed in 2019 to undergo renovations.  'The launch of DoubleTree by Hilton Putrajaya Lakeside brings us to our third DoubleTree by Hilton hotel to open in Southeast Asia in under a year,' Hilton's vice-president for operations in Southeast Asia, Paul Hutton said.  'Joining our portfolio of four DoubleTree by Hilton hotels in Malaysia as the twelfth hotel in our operating estate in Malaysia, the launch of the resort during this period is testament to the commitment of Hilton to establishing our presence in new destinations across the country.  'We are optimistic that when regional and international travel resume in the long-run, DoubleTree by Hilton Putrajaya Lakeside will be well-positioned to meet the evolved needs of our guests in a safe manner while delivering our renowned levels of Hilton hospitality to them,' he added.  Hilton boasts a portfolio of 18 world-class brands comprising more than 6,600 properties and over than onemillion rooms, in 119 countries and territories.  DoubleTree by Hilton is a global portfolio of more than 615 hotels with more than 142,000 rooms across 49 countries and territories.  For more than 50 years, DoubleTree by Hilton has touted itself to be a continuous symbol of comfort for business and leisure travelers around the world, from welcoming guests with its signature warm DoubleTree chocolate chip cookie, to serving the local community.  'The DoubleTree by Hilton brand is synonymous with comfort in a home away from home for travelers all around the world,' said Hilton's Asia-Pacific brand management senior vice-president, Alexandra Jaritz.  'It is now one of our fastest growing brands across the globe and the pace of openings we have been seeing in Asia-Pacific over recent years, is testament to the trust our guests and partners have in the brand,' she added.  'With a contemporary setting complemented by a wide range of facilities, and delightful hospitality delivered by our passionate team members, we are confident DoubleTree by Hilton Putrajaya Lakeside will be top of mind for travelers both within Malaysia and beyond.'  Malaysia is currently also home to DoubleTree by Hilton properties in Kuala Lumpur, Melaka, Johor Baru and Penang. 

KUALA, LUMPUR, Feb 23 — Genting Plantations Bhd's net profit surged 70 per cent to RM432.22 million for the financial year ended Dec 31, 2021 (FY2021), from RM254.36 million in 2020. Revenue rose 25 per cent to RM3.13 billion from RM2.50 billion previously, the group said in a filing with Bursa Malaysia today. For the fourth quarter, its net profit doubled to RM161.64 million versus RM79.04 million a year earlier on the back of 45 per cent higher revenue of RM1.07 billion. The group's improved revenue for 2021 was underpinned by stronger palm products prices, which more than compensated for the decline in fresh fruit bunches (FFB) production, and lower biodiesel and refined palm products sales volume. 'Group FFB production for 2021 declined marginally by 3.0 per cent year-on-year, mainly attributable to the replanting activities in Malaysia, but (this was) mitigated by better harvest in Indonesia due to increased harvesting area,' it said in a press statement. As for its 2022 prospects, Genting Plantations said this would track the performance of its mainstay plantation segment, which, in turn, was dependent principally on the movements in palm products prices and the group's FFB production. 'In the near term, palm product prices are expected to be supported by the supply tightness of palm oil and other substitute oils and fats, as well as Indonesia's recent export ruling. Nevertheless, the export ruling may have an adverse impact on the Indonesian local palm product prices,' it said. The board recommended a final dividend of 4.0 sen per share for FY2021. 'The board also declared a special single-tier dividend of 15 sen per ordinary share. Should the final dividend be approved by shareholders, total dividend (including the interim dividend of 11.0 sen) for 2021 will amount to 30 sen per ordinary share,' the company said. In comparison, the total dividend for FY2020 amounted to 21 sen. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 13 ― Bursa Malaysia ended the morning trading session higher, driven by continued buying activities in selected heavyweights as investors remained positive over the economic outlook, dealers said. At 12.30pm, the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBM KLCI) rose 3.45 points to 1,566.65 from yesterday's closing of 1,563.20. The index, which opened 1.24 points lower at 1,561.96, moved between 1,560.29 and 1,570.14 throughout the session. On the broader market, however, decliners thumped gainers 458 to 356, while 388 counters were unchanged, 1,065 untraded and 40 others suspended. Turnover stood at 1.98 billion units valued at RM921.15 million. In a note, Rakuten Trade said it expected the FBM KLCI to trend around the 1,560-1,570 today, supported by net foreign funds inflow. 'Yesterday's intermittent correction among banking stocks suggests that buying interests could return today, but market undertone remains cautious amidst the higher regional volatility,' it said. It said Wall Street ended in positive territory yesterday although the United States December inflation data came in sharply higher. 'Though the consumer price index (CPI) figure was largely within expectations, overall market sentiments remained rather cautious as the DJI Average gained a mere 38 points while Nasdaq was up 35 points to almost hitting the 15,190 mark. 'On the home front, last-minute buying activities helped pushed the index to close flat, having been in the red for most of yesterday's session,' it added. At midday, heavyweights Maybank added 5.0 sen to RM8.46, Petronas Chemicals jumped 11 sen to RM9.11 and Public Bank declined 2.0 sen to RM4.23, while IHH Healthcare and CIMB were flat at RM6.65 and RM5.56, respectively. Of the actives, Pegasus Heights earned half-a-sen to 1.5 sen, AHB Holdings shed 4.0 sen to 24 sen while MQ Technology and Kanger International were flat at 8.5 sen and 2.5 sen, respectively. On the index board, the FBM Emas Index was 15.24 points higher at 11,317.30, FBM Emas Shariah Index increased 12.13 points to 12,098.47 and FBMT 100 Index climbed 16.06 points to 11,010.46, while FBM ACE trimmed 33.80 points to 6,548.84 and FBM 70 went down 14.81 points to 14,210.44. Sector-wise, the Financial Services Index garnered 83.34 points to 16,178.25, the Industrial Products and Services Index gained 1.21 points to 206.53, while the Plantation Index perked 25.05 points to 6,764.97. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Southern Cable Group Bhd's net profit plunged 81.2 per cent to RM1.38 million in the third quarter (Q3) ended September 30, 2021 from RM7.34 million net profit recorded in the same quarter a year ago. In a statement, the cable and wire manufacturer said this was due to the lower revenue, as well as the impact of higher plastic-based and metal-based raw material prices. Southern Cable's revenue for the quarter was 16.1 per cent lower at RM127.2 million from RM151.56 million previously, on weaker sales of power cables and wires and the impact of various phases of the Movement Control Orders (MCOs). Southern Cable said it now has orders in hand of RM549.7 million, estimated to be delivered over the next two years, as it meets the surging demand for power cables and wires locally. The orders in hand comprise RM225.7 million unbilled purchase orders from new customers, as well as RM324.0 million order book from existing customers. This includes recently-won contracts such as the RM30.4 million contract supply rectifier systems to Telekom Malaysia Bhd and an RM18.5 million contract to supply underground cables and conductors to Tenaga Nasional Bhd. The company said it had been receiving higher orders and supply contracts from new and existing customers, in line with the resumption of economic and business activities as majority of the nation's states had advanced to phase 4 of the National Recovery Plan. Southern Cable managing director Tung Eng Hai said the company was seeing an encouraging uptrend in customer enquiries in recent months, indicating the return of expansionary sentiment across all sectors, including power distribution and renewable energy, telecommunications, construction and infrastructure, as well as manufacturing sectors. 'Our operations are now at 100 per cent workforce capacity since October 2021, with more than 80 per cent of our employees fully vaccinated. With our operations back to peak condition compared to half-capacity in Q3 2021, we aim to ensure the smooth fulfilment of orders and deliveries to our clients. 'We will remain vigilant and prioritise the health and safety of our employees. Not only that, we intend to continue our product development and expansion plans to sustain our long-term growth prospects,' he added. For the nine-month period, Southern Cable's net profit dropped 51.1 per cent to RM8.06 million from RM16.48 million, while revenue increased 16.1 per cent to RM455.92 million from RM392.65 million. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Haily Group Bhd's subsidiary, Haily Construction Sdn Bhd, has bagged a RM27.21 million terrace residential project from Gunung Impian Development Sdn Bhd in Tebrau Johor. In a statement today, the company said it had accepted a letter of award (LA) from Gunung Impian, which was a fixed price lump sum.  The commencement date is scheduled to be December 10, 2021, and the project's full completion shall be December 9, 2022. The LA is expected to contribute positively to the company's earnings and net assets throughout the project. In an exchange filing today, Haily said the project comprised a total of 176 units of single-storey terrace houses and one unit of single-chamber Tenaga Nasional Bhd (TNB) sub-station.  Haily group executive director See Tin Hai said the company's recent track record in securing new contracts bodes well for prospects in the near future. 'We will continue delivering high-quality construction products and services to our customers promptly while seeking to create sustainable returns to all our stakeholders,' he said. To recap, on September 20 and October 18, 2021, Haily secured contracts for residential projects by Gunung Impian and Meridin East Sdn Bhd worth RM24 million and RM24.5 million, respectively. As of November 2, 2021, Haily has 20 ongoing building construction projects and two ongoing civil engineering related construction projects. The total secured contract value from these projects stand at about RM504.95 million. 

KUALA LUMPUR: The domestic property market will likely see gradual improvements in buying sentiment, in line with the generally improved outlook for the Malaysian economy, which is anticipated to perform better this year. PropertyGuru Malaysia country manager Sheldon Fernandez said several other government initiatives introduced in the  Budget 2022 would also help to spur the market for home buyers and investors. These include the RM1.5 billion allocation for low-cost housing projects, the additional RM2 billion for the Housing Credit Guarantee Scheme, and the removal of Real Property Gains Tax (RPGT) on homes sold from the sixth year onwards. He said over the past two years, the Home Ownership Campaign (HOC) has dramatically supported the stability of the property market, along with other government-driven initiatives such as the moratorium on loan repayments and the 1.75 per cent Overnight Policy Rate (OPR). However, the extension of the Home Ownership Campaign (HOC) programme did not materialise despite market watchers pointing out that it would be a vital tool to reinvigorate the market. 'Overall, we will likely see gradual improvements in the market environment in the first half (1H) of this year, before it begins to pick up the pace in the second half (2H) 2022. 'Even as we move forward with a more optimistic outlook, it is important to note that sustained improvement in consumer confidence will continue to be linked to positive or negative developments on the Covid-19 front,' he told The New Straits Times. Sheldon said based on the Property Market Outlook 2022 report, the market is slowly stabilising in 2022, in line with a better-improved outlook for the Malaysian economy as the country moves into the endemic phase. He said Malaysians are still on the lookout for property despite the prolonged pandemic since 2020, with four out of five Malaysians, surveyed still having intentions to buy properties in the future, according to PropertyGuru's Consumer Sentiment Study for H2 2021. Sheldon further said that all indicators point to an ideal time for buyers to get into the market. 'It is an opportune moment to take advantage of low prices while they are on an upward trend and benefit from prevailing low-interest rates while they last. 'A thorough examination is required to ensure home buyers have the capacity and confidence to take on an added long-term financial burden,' he said. When asked to comment on the recent flash flood and will homebuyers now look for more high-ground landed properties, Sheldon said typically, homes located on low-lying land near coastal areas are more prone to flooding, especially on the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia. With the monsoon season between November and January, more areas are at risk of flooding as well. This also poses a threat to houses and buildings built on hills and slopes that might be at risk of collapse from soil erosion unless soil retention works have been put in place. 'While the location has always been one of the key factors of consideration for home seekers in Malaysia - and more people would increasingly prioritise this factor due to recent events - nobody foresees their home to be struck by a flood or any natural disaster. 'At the end of the day, it's important that we have the right disaster management plan and emergency response in place to address these problems so that we are better prepared,' he said. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Sime Darby Plantation Bhd's (SD Plantation) net profit catapulted 221.05 per cent to RM610.00 million in the third quarter (Q3) ended September 30, 2021, from RM190.00 million a year ago. SD Plantation, in an exchange filing today, said this was driven by stronger recurring contribution from the upstream segment, which compensated for the decline in profits contributed by the downstream segment.  Its Q3 revenue surged 59.1 per cent to RM5.06 billion from RM3.18 billion. This was mainly fuelled by the upstream segment on the back of realised higher average of crude palm oil and palm kernel prices as well as improved oil extraction rate. For the nine-month period, SD Plantation's net profit skyrocketed 72.1 per cent to RM1.79 billion from RM1.04 billion, while revenue jumped 39.3 per cent to RM13.15 billion from RM9.44 billion. Chairman Tan Sri Megat Najmuddin Megat Khas said the group was on track for a strong close to the financial year ending December 31, 2021 (FY21). 'While high CPO price is certainly a boon for the whole industry, SDP also owes our strong performance to the management team and our employees across the world who delivered tremendous value in spite of numerous challenges,' he said in a separate statement today. He said the improving situation of Covid-19 globally augured well for industries and businesses everywhere. 'The group will continue to count on the support of our valued team as we prepare to leverage on the anticipated economic recovery ahead,' he added.  Group managing director Mohamad Helmy Othman Basha said the last 21 months had challenged the group, with the acute labour shortage compounded by restrictions on movement.  'Thus, the group welcomes the decision by the government to allow the industry to recruit foreign workers again,' he said. Mohamad Helmy said the pandemic had put a spotlight on the critical need to accelerate the mechanisation, automation and digitalisation of plantation operations, to reduce dependence on manual labour.  'We are spearheading this reinvention of plantation operations and will continue to ramp up our efforts to transform the nature of work in plantations.  'At the heart of all our efforts is the well-being of our people. We are determined to make plantations work less arduous, but more efficient and productive for our workers. We are also intensifying our efforts to recruit more local workers.  'As we progress further with our mechanisation initiatives, we expect to attract more Malaysians who are highly skilled,' he added. The group expects palm oil prices to remain elevated at least until the end of the year before a possible downward adjustment in the second quarter of 2022, when supplies are likely to be improved.  'The high prices will help compensate for the impact of labour shortages on the group's Malaysian upstream production,' it said. Demand is expected to remain strong as more countries ease their Covid-19 restrictions, bringing back earlier suppressed demand.   'Barring any unforeseen circumstances, we expect an overall strong financial year performance for 2021,' it said. 

KUALA LUMPUR: The Malaysian Recycling Alliance (MAREA), which comprises the country's 10 leading fast-moving consumer goods companies, has targeted to recycle an initial 5,000 tonnes of plastic waste by year-end. Marea also pledged to reach a minimum recycling rate of 25 per cent or 20,000 tonnes of plastic waste of members' packaging volumes by 2025. Incorporated on January 4 last year, MAREA wants to bring about positive change by building awareness on the circular economy approach for more efficient packaging waste management. The 10 member companies comprise Coca-Cola Malaysia, Colgate-Palmolive Malaysia, Dutch Lady Milk Industries, Etika Group of Companies, Fraser & Neave Malaysia, Mondelēz International (Malaysia), Nestlé (Malaysia) Bhd, Spritzer, Tetra Pak Malaysia and Unilever Malaysia. Malaysia's first voluntary, not-for-profit, industry-driven extended producer responsibility (EPR) platform also aims to maximise the use of recycled and renewable materials among its members, promoting separation and collection at source while avoiding post-consumer packaging materials leakage into the environment. 'The collective commitments are part of MAREA's contribution to the nation's sustainable development with a strong emphasis and priority on plastic waste, in any form and shape, while triggering a positive spill-over effect throughout the value chain.' This was also in line with the Water and Environment Ministry's (KASA) Malaysia Plastic Sustainability Roadmap 2021-2030. MAREA has collaborated with the government and other stakeholders to jointly drive a common goal to improve collection and recycling rates for a greener, cleaner Malaysia and a more sustainable, waste-reduced future. MAREA chairman Juan Aranols said the alliance would work with policymakers, industry participants, consumers and other stakeholders to establish, expand and strengthen a circular value chain enabled by solid collection, sorting and recycling schemes.  'MAREA will cultivate a stronger recycling culture, initiating consumer education and public awareness campaigns to achieve large scale behaviour change and encourage people to adopt more sustainable lifestyles,' he said at a virtual briefing during the first anniversary celebration of MAREA yesterday. Environment and Water Minister Datuk Seri Tuan Ibrahim Tuan Man said the strategic thrust identified in the Plastics Sustainability Roadmap was to implement mandatory EPR initiatives and reach a recycling rate of 25 per cent for post-consumer plastic packaging by 2025. 'In line with this, we are heartened by MAREA's proactive pledge and voluntary initiatives, which are much aligned with our vision and goals. Through this dynamic multi-stakeholder approach, the Ministry believes that the results can strengthen the recycling circular economy, leading to a more sustainable future for all Malaysians,' he said. Housing and Local Government Deputy Minister Datuk Seri Dr Ismail Abd Muttalib said the minister would extend support to local authorities to drive positive socio-economic development, to ensure healthy and prosperous communities. 'Responsible management of waste is integral to this, and this is why we are working towards achieving the country's national recycling rate target. MAREA's launch is highly laudable, bringing together fast-moving-consumer-goods (FMCG) member companies that are eager to lead recycling initiatives with one unified goal,' he said. Aranols, who is Nestlé Malaysia chief executive officer, said MAREA would want to reinforce the industry commitment to be an active contributor in the battle against packaging waste, specifically plastic packaging waste in any of its forms. He said Nestle Malaysia particularly, was excited to embark on the journey, which deemed as an investment for the future to bringing together all of the players with one common goal to solve the problem of plastic waste pollution, protecting oceans, shores and communities from its consequences. 'Environmental conservation is a key priority. We have to protect the planet's natural resources and preserve biodiversity and the ecosystems that support many of our communities. Plastic waste is an important environmental challenge and is a problem in Malaysia and across Southeast Asia,' he said. 

PUTRAJAYA, Dec 8 — Secretary of State of the United States (US) Antony Blinken will visit Malaysia from December 14 to 15. Malaysian Foreign Ministry (Wisma Putra) in a statement today said Secretary Blinken, who is on his inaugural visit here, will be received by Foreign Minister Datuk Saifuddin Abdullah. He is scheduled to call on Prime Minister Datuk Seri Ismail Sabri Yaakob during the visit. International and regional issues of common concerns will also be addressed during the visit, the statement said. According to Wisma Putra, the visit will provide an excellent opportunity for Malaysia and the US to further strengthen the multifaceted cooperation and explore new joint initiatives. The US-Malaysia Comprehensive Partnership continues to be an overarching framework for pro-active, multifaceted, and mutually beneficial collaboration between the two countries. The ongoing active collaboration in areas such as trade and investment, digital and green economy, cyber-security, defence, health, tourism, education, and people-to-people ties has brought tremendous benefits to both sides. The US is one of Malaysia's major trading partners and investors. In 2020, Malaysia-US trade was valued at RM178.18 billion, while the total amount of investments approved from the US in the manufacturing sector in Malaysia was valued at RM3.7 billion. Meanwhile, a media advisory from the US Embassy in Kuala Lumpur said Secretary Blinken's visit to Malaysia is part of his travel itinerary to the region from December 13-16, which also includes Indonesia and Thailand. In Jakarta, the Secretary will deliver remarks on the significance of the Indo-Pacific region and underscore the importance of the US-Indonesia Strategic Partnership. In Malaysia, he would advance the US-Malaysia partnership on addressing shared challenges, including Covid-19, building resilient supply chains, and ensuring a free and open Indo-Pacific region. In Thailand, Secretary Blinken will reaffirm the US commitment to the US-Thailand treaty alliance, working toward post-pandemic economic recovery, and addressing the climate crisis. The advisory added that in each country, Secretary Blinken will also address the worsening crisis in Burma. 

KUALA LUMPUR: RAM Ratings Services Bhd has assigned a preliminary AA1/Stable rating to Widad Concession Sdn Bhd's (Widad Concession) RM310 million sukuk wakalah facility. RAM Ratings said from a cash flow perspective, Widad Concession will be entirely dependent on YBK Usahasama Sdn Bhd YBKU and Serendah Heights Sdn Bhd to service its obligations under the proposed sukuk. Widad Concession, a fully-owned subsidiary of Widad Group Bhd (WGB), was set up to finance the acquisition cost of the private-public partnership (PPP) or project finance initiative (PFI) project held by YBKU. WGB completed the acquisition of YBKU's immediate holding company, Serendah Heights, in March 2021. Serendah Heights' business activity is only limited to YBKU. The rating agency said semi-annual murabahah stock repayments and dividends from the two entities would support these obligations. 'YBKU has also received prompt payments from UiTM since the completion of the campus on 30 January 2014. 'Performance-related deductions have been minimal at less than 1 per cent per annum,' it said. WGB group managing director Datuk Mohd Rizal bin Mohd Jaafar said the AA1 stable rating assigned by RAM reinforces WGB's confidence in its vision to continue building a robust business that emphasizes growth, productivity and financial strength. Rizal said the outlook for 2021 is difficult to predict, but with the completion of the company's acquisitions of concessionaires and strong expected cash flow, the company feels positive about spearheading the integrated facility management (IFM) industry as a formidable player going ahead. 'We are also optimistic about achieving our key-performance outcome and sustaining financial performance this year,' he said. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Feb 28 — Bursa Malaysia has rejected Nationwide Express Holdings Bhd's application for an extension of time to submit its regularisation plan. Hence, pursuant to paragraph 8.04(5) of the Main Market Listing Requirements, its shares trading will be suspended from trading with effect from March 8, 2022. Bursa Malaysia said the securities of the company will be delisted on March 10, 2022 unless an appeal against the de-listing is submitted on or before March 7, 2022. Any appeal submitted after the appeal timeframe will not be considered by Bursa Malaysia, it said in an announcement today. 'In the event the company submits an appeal to Bursa Malaysia within the appeal timeframe, the delisting of the securities of the company from the Official List of Bursa Securities will be deferred pending the decision on the company's appeal. 'However, Bursa Malaysia shall proceed to suspend the trading of the company's securities on March 8 even though the decision on the company's appeal is still pending,'' it said. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Damansara Holdings Bhd (DBhd) has appointed Datuk Nor Azri Zulfakar as its new chairman effective from November 9,2021. DBhd also redesignated its newly-appointed group chief executive officer Muaazam Mahmud to group managing director. Nor Azri, 60, who also holds directorship in Johor Corp (JCorp), took over from Datuk Ahmad Zahri Jamil, who resigned on the same day. At the same time, Muaazam, previously chief transformation officer at JCorp, takes over from Azman Tambi Chik. Meanwhile, DBhd appointed three new non-independent non-executive directors last month namely Datuk Sr. Akmal Ahmad, Shamsul Anuar Abdul Majid and Hazman Hilmi Sallahuddin. The company also announced the resignation of Datuk Mohd Aisom Omar as its independent non-executive director effective from Nov 9 due to other work commitments. 'The new line-up of DBhd's boardroom consists of a total of seven members and will be led by Nor Azri,' it said today. 'It is indeed a privilege for us to have prominent key individuals and leaders on board, who collectively bring a wealth of experience in their respective areas of expertise. 'On behalf of the management team, we look forward to working together to propel DBhd's growth and momentum, as we continue our transformation journey,' Muaazam said in the statement. 

KUALA LUMPUR: The National Tech Association of Malaysia former chairman and entrepreneur Ganesh Kumar Bangah believes private sector enterprises should lead and drive innovation adoption. 'In the first place, the private sector has to be at the forefront of creating innovation before approaching the government for adoption,' said Ganesh. 'For the second part, the private sector can play a key role in terms of ensuring that usage happens. For example, numerous countries, including Malaysia, privatised implementation of e-government services because the government believes that the private sector knows how to get that buy-in better,' he said. He said this during a panel discussion titled The Story of a National Cyber Journey, held recently to a global audience as part of the virtual E-Nation Conference, Future Fast: Thriving for a Better Tomorrow. The virtual conference was organised by the Malaysian Global Innovation and Creativity Centre (MaGIC), of which Ganesh was a board member before the agency's merger with Technology Park Malaysia. Moderated by CNN international business correspondent and anchor Richard Quest, the panel was also graced by former Estonian president Toomas Hendrik Ilves who oversaw the large-scale digital transformation of Estonia's government agencies between 2006 and 2016. Ilves said Estonia's digital transformation successes were due to political will to alleviate the nation's poverty issues, as the country had just come out of the Soviet Union. Post-event, President Ilves said in Estonia, the private sector worked with the government in a non-competitive way. 'Companies understood that the larger payoff would come from widespread digital uptake coupled with reputational boost,' he said. 'This is in stark contrast to (some) companies in other countries pushing for protectionist measures to keep out foreign competitors,' added Ilves. He cited the Estonian x-road system tender for the system's architecture which was open to all companies and eventually won by Estonian company Cybernetica AS.  Today, the system is in use in 15 countries worldwide. Ganesh agreed that, in any implementation of digital government, political will is paramount. 'Since the pandemic, however, people are starting to see that digitisation is the only way to do business in certain circumstances.  'Governments are also starting to adopt digitalisation more aggressively,' he said. Following Ilves' advice that implementing digital government requires a 'primus inter pares' (first amongst equals), perhaps in the form of a digital minister, Ganesh agreed that such a clear-cut chain of command was necessary. While crucial to digital transformation, Ganesh said that technology's primary role is the enabler and not the core of transformation. 'Speaking as a tech person, developing a solution and making it go live is one of the simplest parts of implementing e-government. However, the most challenging part is in getting citizens to use the solutions developed. 'In the end, the core of technology adoption is not about the technology, it's about human usage,' he said. 

KUALA LUMPUR: SMTrack Bhd has refuted accusations on its involvement in the current radio-frequency identification (RFID) projects and will take actions to protect its integrity and affect investors' confidence. In denying the allegation of its involvement at the RFID projects for toll plazas, deputy executive chairman Azmi Osman said as a company that specialises in RFID solutions, the company believe in the value-add that this technology will bring to the community.AdvertisementSkip 'We are confident that the introduction of RFID at toll plazas would improve efficiency and traffic. 'This is because proper tests have been conducted, and it has been in use for more than two years,' he said in a statement today. Aside from that, Azmi also refutes the allegations that Datuk Saiful Nizam Mohd Yusoff as an independent non-executive director is related to his political connections. 'The appointment of Saiful Nizam has nothing to do with his political connections, and it has been done based solely on his merits and experience. 'The company would not discriminate against any individuals based on their background and would take extra measures to disclose any potential conflict of interest if there were any. 'As an independent director Saiful Nizam is not involved in the day-to-day business decisions and operations,' Azmi said. Meanwhile, despite becoming a significant stakeholder, SMTrack has denied Tan Sri Lee Kim Yew's involvement in lobbying for the company's projects. 'SMTrack is a public-listed entity, and any investor who has confidence with the company could invest via the open market. 'We are proud that Lee sees the potential in the company and has taken the decision based on his investment capacity. 'However, we would like to reiterate that Lee is not part of the SMTrack's strategic and operation team and is not involved in any projects lobbying for the company,' Azmi said. On 29 December 2021, Lee acquired 28.5 million shares in SMTrack or a 5.05 per cent stake. Azmi said the political propaganda spread against SMTrack is irresponsible. The ongoing RFID saga was covered by former Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak on his Facebook posting and also various online news portals, and SMTrack was tied to these controversies. Azmi said these baseless accusations and lies by irresponsible parties would confuse the public destroy the reputation of the listed entity and the integrity of Malaysia's capital market, and confuse the public on the benefits of RFID technology. Azmi said these baseless accusations would harm the integrity of the company and Malaysia's capital market, which is vital to drive growth in the country. 'Therefore, we plead to the government and enforcers to take action against parties responsible for such lies. 'The company will not hesitate to take legal action against these baseless accusations to protect its integrity,' Azmi said. 'If these baseless accusations led to the departure of prominent investors and credible leaders such as Lee and Saiful Nizam, there will be a damaging impact to SMTrack's reputation, financial performance and even share prices. 'Therefore, I plead for both Lee and Saiful Nizam to remain with the company,' Azmi said. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Bursa Malaysia ended Monday in red for the seventh consecutive session despite foreign investors returning to the market, pushed down by the selling of selected heavyweight counters led by Sime Darby Plantation and Top Glove.  At 5 pm, the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBM KLCI) lost 20.62 points or 1.33 per cent to 1,527.89 from Friday's close of 1,548.51.  The index, which opened 0.89 of-a-point easier at 1,547.62, moved between 1,526.90 and 1,547.67 throughout the day. Market breadth was negative with decliners outnumbering gainers 951 to 194, while 359 counters were unchanged, 772 untraded, and nine others suspended. Turnover fell to 4.69 billion units worth RM2.9 billion from last Friday's 5.13 billion units worth RM4.18 billion.  Rakuten Trade Sdn Bhd vice-president of equity research Thong Pak Leng said the performance of the local markets had been sluggish, further aggravated by news of potential windfall taxes and the waiving of interest. 'We reckon sentiments will remain dampened until more clarity surfaces. Having said that, we believe bargain hunting may emerge as the country's economy is slowly reopening amid COVID-19 cases had declined to a two-month low,' he told Bernama. As Malaysia enter the fourth quarter, Thong said the market could expect some portfolio realignments and window dressing activities to occur. 'For the week, we anticipate the index to remain sideways with immediate support at 1,520 and resistance at 1,550,' he added.  Among the heavyweights, Sime Darby Plantation lost 35 sen to RM3.45, Top Glove trimmed 25 sen to RM2.81, and Press Metal fell 15 sen to RM5.65.  Maybank advanced five sen to RM8.30, Petronas Chemicals added one sen to RM7.95, Hong Leong Bank was flat at RM18.70, Public Bank decreased four sen to RM4.02 and IHH Healthcare slipped five sen to RM6.65.   Among the actives, Kanger International was flat at five sen, Pasukhas eased 2.5 sen to nine sen, Emico dropped 12 sen to 54.5 sen, Dagang Nexchange and Yong Tai both went down four sen to 76 sen and 16 sen, respectively.   On the index board, the FBM Emas Index narrowed 160.20 points to 11,205.62, the FBMT 100 Index was 148.30 points weaker at 10,911.56, and the FBM Emas Shariah Index lost 232.70 points to 12,181.44.  The FBM 70 discounted 205.14 points to 14,802.15, while FBM ACE weakened by 194.61 points to 7,006.61.  Sector-wise, the Plantation Index trimmed 185.15 points to 6,241.27, the Industrial Products and Services Index went down 2.96 points to 196.65, and the Financial Services Index slid 55.40 points to 15,234.40 

KUALA LUMPUR: Property developer Matrix Concepts Holdings Bhd has achieved a 95 per cent take-up rate for the first phase launch of its latest development, Bayu Sutera. Bayu Sutera is Matrix Concepts' latest freehold residential development spanning over 216 acres in Bandar Sri Sendayan, Negeri Sembilan. Bayu Sutera has a total of 2,043 double-storey link houses with a gross development value (GDV) of RM1 billion to offer in its nine precincts, which will be launched gradually over the next few years. Chief marketing officer Lim Kok Yee said the company strongly believed in its products, focusing on value creation aspects based on quality, modern and functional designs, and a thriving, self-sufficient township. 'Our Celyn @ Bayu Sutera houses are priced from RM529,000 onwards, and based on our data, 61 per cent of our home purchasers are from Kuala Lumpur and Selangor. '26 per cent are Negeri Sembilan residents while the rest are from other states. This means that our houses are still very much in demand despite the overall soft market,' he said in a statement today. The master plan of Bayu Sutera is designed for multi-generational stay towards healthy living within the desired address. The main feature of the development is its 9.5-acre park called Breezeway – a literal translation of Bayu Sutera since the park is deemed to be almost parallel to the western coast wind course lines of Peninsular Malaysia. Similarly, each precinct is specially landscaped with a park with trails, greenery, playgrounds, badminton courts, outdoor obstacle and exercise fixtures, and equipment. Safety and security concerns are well taken care of as each precinct comes with its perimeter fencing and individual guardhouse. Bayu Sutera will be highly sought after for its proximity to the township's central hub. In addition, the international school - Matrix Global School, leisure and extreme sports centre - Sendayan X-Park, d'Tempat Country Club, and commercial areas - Sendayan Merchant Square and Sendayan Metropark - are located. Launched August 2021, the first phase of Bayu Sutera recorded a take-up rate of 95 per cent within two weeks. 308 units of the 325 double-storey link houses of Celyn @ Bayu Sutera has been subscribed, and homebuyers took up almost all corner units within the first week of the launch. There are four layouts with large built-ups ranging from 2,142 sq feet to 2,478 sq feet, suitable for multi-generational families and households. The sizable space ensures comfort for the homeowners besides the much-needed privacy, especially during the current new norm of WFH (work from home) implementation. 'The property market is still trying to stabilise, and purchasers have the upper hand in acquiring properties, be it new houses or sub-sales. 'Also, the location of the properties is the priority as usual, and home owners look for public amenities, safety, accessibility and connectivity,' Lim said. He also stated that Bandar Sri Sendayan, a 6,300-acre self-sustaining township in Negeri Sembilan with a population of 40,000 and growing, is a good fit for the company's development strategy. Due to the encouraging take-up rate, Lim said Matrix Concepts would be releasing the next phase of Bayu Sutera very soon. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Sept 23 — The ringgit declined further against the US dollar at the opening bell today, following the United States Federal Reserve's (US Fed) upbeat conclusion of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting yesterday, which could lead to an eventual hike in their policy rate, said an analyst.  At 9am, the local note depreciated to 4.1925/1955 from 4.1910/1950 at Wednesday's close. Bank Islam chief economist Dr Mohd Afzanizam Abdul Rashid said the FOMC meeting was concluded with the US Fed explicitly stating its intention to taper down its asset purchase programme soon. "The FOMC members were of the view that the US economy has made good progress towards achieving its dual policy goals, including maximum employment and price stability,' he told Bernama.    More importantly, he said the US Fed's dot plots indicated that more participants were expecting higher interest rates next year, where the Fund Rate could be higher than 0.25 per cent in 2022. "The survey among the US Fed's members was also in line with the economic projection as the US' 2022 Gross Domestic Product (GDP) forecast has been bumped up to 3.8 per cent from 3.3 per cent projected in June,' he said. Mohd Afzanizam noted that the inflation rate projection was also revised upwards up to 2023, implying that the rate hike cycle would begin in 2022. Consequently, the greenback is also strengthening against major currencies, he added. "As such, the ringgit could stay weaker today,' he said.  Similarly, ActivTrades trader Dyogenes Rodrigues Diniz said the scenario could cause the local note to slip over the next few days to the 4.2400 level, where it may encounter some selling pressure.  'Apart from that, the Consumer Price Index (CPI), which is due tomorrow, could bring some volatility to the market.  'If the CPI comes in below expectations, it could cause the ringgit to lose more value against the US dollar,' he said. At the opening, the ringgit was traded higher against a basket of major currencies. The ringgit increased versus the British pound to 5.7085/7126 from 5.7140/7195 at Wednesday's close, climbed vis-a-vis the Singapore dollar to 3.0948/0972 from 3.0996/1028 and appreciated to 4.8998/9033 versus the euro from 4.9156/9203 yesterday. The local note also widened against the yen to 3.8162/8193 from 3.8270/8311 previously 

KUALA LUMPUR: CIMB Group Holdings Bhd (CIMB Group) has appointed Lani Darmawan as the president director and chief executive officer (CEO) of CIMB Niaga. In a statement toyed, CIMB Group said the appointment would be effective as of the date specified in CIMB Niaga's extraordinary general meeting (EGM) held today, subject to obtaining approval from the Financial Services Authority of Indonesia (OJK). Lani would succeed Tigor M. Siahaan, who is currently serving his notice period. With more than 35 years of banking and finance experience, Lani is an established leader with a proven track record in the industry. Lani has been with CIMB Niaga since 2016 and was most recently the bank's CEO of consumer business. CIMB Group said Lani has been instrumental in transforming CIMB Niaga's consumer banking business to serve the needs of customers across Indonesia better and drive the bank's business strategy in alignment with the group's Forward23+ strategic plan. Before CIMB Niaga, Lani had held leadership roles in several large financial institutions in Indonesia. CIMB Group chairman Datuk Mohd Nasir Ahmad said the bank welcomed Lani to her new role as she took up the helm at CIMB Niaga. 'I am confident that her strong leadership acumen coupled with her extensive industry experience, strategic vision and constant customer focus will further strengthen CIMB Niaga's position as a leading banking franchise in Indonesia. 'As the first female country CEO in CIMB Group, Lani's appointment also demonstrates our commitment to promote diversity and inclusion in our leadership bench, in line with the Group's sustainability agenda,' he said. Mohd Nasir said Indonesia was a key market for CIMB Group, and CIMB Niaga was stronger today thanks to the team Tigor has ably led. 'On behalf of CIMB Group, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to Tigor for his leadership and invaluable contributions in building CIMB Niaga into what it is today,' he added. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Foreign investors turned net sellers on Bursa Malaysia with RM163.64 million outflow last week from an inflow of RM66.61 million in the previous week. In its weekly fund flow report, MIDF Research said this was the first week of net outflow after seven weeks of a net inflow by foreign investors. 'As the market reopened last Monday, local institutions and retailers were net buyers, respectively, amounting to RM37.33 million and RM45.11 million,' it said. MIDF Research said foreign investors were net sellers to the tune of RM82.44 million on Monday. Foreign investors were net sellers for every day of the week.  'The largest foreign outflow was recorded on Monday to the tune of RM82.44 million,' it said.  The firm said retailers were net buyers everyday for the week except on Friday. The largest net buying by retailers was recorded on Monday (RM45.11 million) with the only net selling stood at RM7.72 million.  'For the week, retailers net bought RM109.50 million worth of equities in Bursa,' it said.  On the other hand, MIDF Research said local institutions recorded cumulative weekly net selling of RM54.16 million.  The firm said local institutions were net sellers for the majority of the week except Monday and Friday.  'The largest net selling on Thursday to the tune of RM16.30 million, while the largest net inflow on Friday amounted to RM50.49 million,' it said.  According to MIDF Research, since the beginning of 2021, cumulatively, retailers had been the only net buyers of the local equity market with RM11.70 billion.  Local institutions and foreign investors were net sellers to the tune of RM9.85 billion and RM1.85 billion respectively. 'In terms of participation the retail investors, local institutions and the foreign investors recorded a weekly movement of 14.03 per cent, 9.83 per cent and 11.32 per cent respectively in average daily trade value,' it added. 

TANGKAK: The Housing and Local Government Ministry will introduce the Rosa Sinensis Award to rate and recognise comprehensive planning, development and management of public parks and green spaces in the country.  The award, named after Malaysia's national flower, the hibiscus, will be given out by the National Landscape Department, starting next year.  Housing and Local Government Minister Datuk Seri Reezal Merican Naina Merican said the award would evaluate the efforts of all stakeholders in the development of public parks.  These stakeholders, he said, included local authorities, government agencies and developers who remain committed in ensuring that the development of public parks and green spaces benefit the community, environment and urban biodiversity.     'Based on the feedback gathered during the Aspirasi Keluarga Malaysia event that was held between Dec 9 and 12, the ministry found that many people stressed on the importance of having open spaces and public parks.  'Their aspiration is in line with the Agenda Nasional Malaysia Sihat (ANMS) that gives priority to improving the people's health.  'A green and quality environment is important to both the body as well as to the mental health and psychological condition of the people.  'The ministry will, therefore, introduce the Rosa Sinensis Award to encourage public parks to be developed with good safety and high quality,' he said, at the handing-over ceremony of the Tanjung Agas Public Park to the Johor government on Thursday.    During the ceremony, Reezal conveyed his gratitude to the sultan of Johor for his consent to develop the park and commended the National Landscape Department for completing the project.  The ceremony was attended by Johor Menteri Besar Datuk Hasni Mohammad and state Housing and Local Government Committee chairman Ayub Jamil. Located along the Muar River, the Tanjung Agas Public Park spans 2.86 hectares and was developed with an allocation of RM8.033 million from the Federal Government. The park started welcoming visitors since Sep 16 last year.  Reezal said this public park is a landscape project aimed at providing functional and sustainable green infrastructures, which were the core components of green urbanism and conservation of plant species.  The development of this park is also part of the government's efforts to create green and resilient cities, in line with its Liveable Malaysia ambition.  'Ensuring community wellbeing through a green and quality environment is a vital component to realise the Liveable Malaysia aspiration.    'The creation of this park is also another effort by the government to translate its policies into action by offering people the opportunity to derive benefits from economic growth, connectivity and the right to live in a safe, resilient and harmonious environment.  'As such, the people as the primary beneficiaries, should have access to public recreational facilities and a clean, green and beautiful environment, in addition to well-functioning basic amenities, last-mile connectivity and access to communication networks.  'This is why we introduced the Malaysia Liveability Index as a measuring tool to ensure that the urban and environmental planning and development by local authorities take these factors into account. 'In fact, the 12th Malaysia Plan also outlined the development of green and resilient cities as one of its focuses, which serves as a fundamental guideline for the ministry to achieve the Liveable Malaysia aspiration,' he said. The ministry, he said, would pursue more landscape development that elevates the people's wellbeing and quality of life.  Reezal said the rate of urban migration in the country had reached 75 per cent.  This changing demography, he said, showed the urgent need for liveable cities that were balanced, in terms of physical development, environmental sustainability, progressive economy and social prosperity, while retaining the country's cultural heritage.    The Tanjung Agas Public Park, for instance, was designed around the 15th century legend of Puteri Gunung Ledang. Elements of the legend are evident in the park, for instance, through its lighting designs, the seven carved trays placed at the park's entrance, and through the erection of a historical and information wall.  The design of the park's open space or Dataran Rakyat was also inspired by Puteri Gunung Ledang's hairpin (cucuk sanggul).  Mature trees that grew around the park area were retained and integrated into the park's design by fitting colourful lights onto them. Reezal hoped the park would become a new landmark for the Tangkak district and inspire more landscape development projects in Johor. He also advised the local community to be responsible and cooperate with the Tangkak District Council to maintain and manage the park. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Selangor State Development Corp (PKNS) has garnered a total of RM900 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, from the sale of residential, commercial property and land, despite the pandemic and challenging market conditions.  The statutory body and development agency said its portfolio comprised a mix of affordable, mid-range to high-end residential developments, priced from RM400,000 to RM1 million, catering to the needs of diverse homebuyers in the state. Chief executive officer Datuk Mahmud Abbas said PKNS' goal was to create a better life for all, anchoring on good governance, commitment to the environment, as well as social and economic growth of the state and nation.  'PKNS' commitment is to enhance existing townships and developments and rejuvenate existing developments by introducing new concepts, repurposing spaces, injecting contemporary designs, and conserving natural gems.  'We believe by doing so, our developments will continue to excite the community, be it home buyers or entrepreneurs, and uphold the state as an attractive hub for investors,' he said at PKNS' 2022 outlook briefing today. Mahmud said PKNS was expected to roll out development plans for 2022 and to see growth both economically and socially in the state of Selangor. PKNS applied a holistic approach to the state's development, eyeing 12 new projects valued at an estimated RM690 million in gross development value (GDV) for 2022.  PKNS said it had set a target to achieve about RM584 million sales for 2022.  This would be underpinned by the strength of its property portfolio comprising over 160,000 homes built across 26,102ha and industrial developments spanning 4,809.68ha. PKNS is optimistic of achieving its targets and unlocking greater value for the state, the community and its stakeholders. As at January 21 this year, PKNS had a landbank size of 2,417 hectares and expected to develop the land with the right mix of developments to match emerging market demands.  The composition of PKNS' landbank represents 44 per cent commercial, 13 per cent residential, and 43 per cent mix developments with the largest parcels strategically around economic gateways in Klang, Bernama Jaya and Hulu Langat. PKNS witnessed a growing demand in its mid-range homes evident with the encouraging take up rates for its Rafflesia (Bernama Jaya), Puteri Daffina X (Kota Puteri), Antara Gapi; Selangor Cyber Valley, and Residensi Aurora. PKNS delivered over 4,000 affordable homes under its Rumah Selangorku range in the past year. PKNS is entrusted with the responsibility to drive economic and social growth as the development arm of Selangor.  Established in 1964, the corporation has developed 11 self-sufficient townships across Selangor included a mix of residential growth centres and industrial parks in its 58 years of operations 

COACH  Ong Kim Swee will unofficially mark his return to club football when Sabah travel to Kelana Jaya today for their Malaysia Cup Group D match against PJ City FC at MBPJ Stadium. Kim Swee may not be on the Sabah bench today as his term as technical director of FA of Malaysia only ends on Friday. However, the former national Under-23 coach has been coaching Sabah in Kota Kinabalu since last week. The Rhinos hope to start brightly in the Malaysia Cup today following a 10-match winless run in the recent Super League. Kim Swee is feeling at home at Sabah as he had once played for the Rhinos. The 51-year-old's job has been made easier as some of the Sabah players had played for him when he was coaching the national youth and senior teams. Among those he had worked with before are defender Nazirul Naim Che Hashim and forwards N. Thanabalan and Amri Yahyah. 'However, it does not mean they will be automatic choices for matches. I need to be fair to everyone, and they need to fight for their spots in the team. 'Before I had joined the team in Sabah, there were talks on how I should manage the players. Yes, I have taken their suggestions into account, but it does not mean I will accept them. 'The players have to show that they are fighters. Everyone will be judged on merit. If some do not perform, then I am sorry to say (they will not play),' said Kim Swee. Kim Swee is using the Malaysia Cup to prepare a solid team for next season. 'I am still analysing the team's strengths and weaknesses as I had only joined the team a week ago. 'We have to be realistic. The team have to show progress before we can set targets. 'The players have to adapt to my coaching style and expectations. 'However, what I have seen so far are positives from the players. We do not have a good record against PJ City, so I hope to see some progress tomorrow. We also cannot afford to underestimate Premier League side Kelantan,' he added. In another Group D match, reigning champions Johor Darul Ta'zim (JDT) play Kelantan at Sultan Ibrahim Stadium today. Kelantan striker Nurshamil Abd Ghani, the local top scorer in the Premier League with eight goals, believes his team can qualify for the quarter-finals. 'We do not want to make the numbers in the group. We are confident that we can compete against JDT, PJ City and Sabah,' said Nurshamil. 

The National Juniors will resume their quarantine-style training programme today at the Academy Badminton Malaysia (ABM) in Bukit Kiara.   The juniors will be the first on court again after six seniors tested positive for Covid-19 last week.   BAM secretary general Datuk Kenny Goh said none of the junior players or coaches came into direct contact with the six, who are now quarantined at  Malaysia Agro Exposition Park Serdang (MAEPS).   'We have decided that the juniors will resume training first on Wednesday, and we will monitor them day to day.   'As for the seniors, their training programme has been put on hold for the time being.'   It is learnt that the senior players and coaches, currently in self isolation, will   be tested again on Friday.   A total of 91 athletes, coaches and officials at the ABM were tested last week, and their results were negative.   Kenny said BAM are still waiting to hear from the doctors at MAEPS as to when the six players can rejoin national training.    'We have yet to hear anything from MAEPS, but once we get clearance, they should be back,' he added.   The backup players and 10 juniors will fly to Europe next for the Slovenia International Series on May 19-22 and the Austrian Open on May 27-30. 

KUALA LUMPUR, July 8 — After much contemplation, the 31st SEA Games scheduled to be held from November 21 to December 2 in Hanoi, has been postponed to next year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Olympic Council of Malaysia (OCM) in a statement said, the SEA Games Federation (SEAGF), which met virtually today, agreed with the postponement after rejecting the proposals twice, previously. It stated that, a new date will be determined by the SEAGF Council. 'The SEAGF members praised the work done thus far by the Vietnam Organising Committee (VOC), but took note of the current conditions of the Covid-19 pandemic in the South-East Asian region,' the statement added. According to local media reports last month, VOC wanted to postpone the Hanoi Games to March or June next year due to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Vietnam and other South-east Asian countries, which also delayed the hosts' preparations. Vietnam, who is set to host the SEA Games for the second time after the 2003 edition, has previously listed 520 events from 40 sports for this year's Games. The only time the biennial games has been cancelled since the inaugural edition in 1959, was in 1963, when Cambodia could not host the multi-sport games due to political instability. The latest decision will see an influx of multi-sport events in the 2022 calendar, including the Beijing Winter Olympics from February 4-20, Birmingham Commonwealth Games (July 28-August 8) and Hangzhou Asian Games (September 10-25). Previously, Malaysia was among the eight countries, who rejected the proposals to postpone the SEA Games to 2022 due to various reasons.  Meanwhile, OCM president Tan Sri Mohamad Norza Zakaria who represented Malaysia in the meeting had proposed the 2021 SEA Games be brought forward to end of April or early May next year, as the organiser has yet to find a convincing resolution. 'I proposed to do a voting for the postponement of the 2021 SEA Games, whereby 10 countries supported the motion while one country which was Vietnam abstained it was indeed an unanimous decision,' he told a virtual press conference today after attending the online meeting with coaches and team managers of Tokyo Olympics. A total of 30 athletes from 10 sports will compete in Tokyo Olympics, which is slated to be held from July 23-August 8. 

KUALA LUMPUR: It's a repeat of the 2020 All England quarter-finals with Lee Zii Jia taking on defending champion Chen Long in the Tokyo Olympics round of 16 tomorrow.    On a day that saw world No 1 Kento Momota of Japan knocked out of the men's singles, ninth seed Zii Jia carved out a 21-17, 21-5 win over France's Brice Leverdez in their final Group M tie at the Musashino Forest Sport Plaza.   In Group N, Chen Long took pole position after defeating Spain's Pablo Abian 21-11, 21-10.   On his chances, Zii Jia said: 'Chen Long is one of my idols in badminton. I grew up watching him play.    'We also have a lot of respect for each other.     'Our head-to-head record is 2-2, and it's always a close battle with him.  I'm really looking forward to playing him.'    South Korean Heo Kwang Hee produced the biggest shock today, with the world No 38 stunning world No 1  Momota 21-15, 21-19 to top Group A with two wins.    Kwang Hee, like Taiwan's Chou Tien Chen who topped Group P, earned automatic qualification to the last eight stage.   On Momota's early exit from the competition, Zii Jia said: 'I'm really shocked, but it also proves that the Olympics is anybody's game.    'If Momota can be knocked out, anybody can. Even Tien Chen barely made it through the group stages.    'This is my first Olympics, and I'm grateful to be in good condition. I have prepared well for this, so I'm hoping to have a good tournament.'   Other notable names who cleared the group stages today included former world champion Viktor Axelsen, Indonesia's Anthony Sinisuka Ginting, 2018 Asian Games champion Jonatan Christie and World Tour Finals champion Anders Antonsen of Denmark. 

JOHOR BARU, Dec 9 — The Malaysian Handball Federation (MAHF) will hold talks with the Minister of Youth and Sports Datuk Seri Ahmad Faizal Azumu over its suspension by the Olympic Council of Malaysia (OCM). MAHF president Pandak Ahmad said the federation was suspended following its failure to pay RM133,000 when participating in the Asian Games in Palembang, Jakarta in 2018. As a result of the suspension, he said MAHF could not send a team to the Asian Cup qualifiers in Saudi Arabia in January next year and will not be present at the International Handball Union (IHF) World and Asian Congress. 'The suspension was imposed before I took back the post of MAHF president in March last year,' he said. Pandak explained that under the terms agreed with OCM as part of MAHF settlement, the figure is approximately RM10,000 a month. 'In a pandemic situation, it is quite difficult for us to meet the monthly payment and the federation had asked the previous minister of youth and sports Datuk Seri Reezal Merican Naina Merican to resolve this issue. 'However, until now OCM president Tan Sri Mohamad Norza Zakaria has maintained that MAHF will need to consult new Youth and Sports Minister Datuk Seri Ahmad Faizal Azumu in an effort to resolve the issue,' said Pandak during a media conference held here today. MAHF was previously suspended after the previous president failed to settle the federation's debts for expenses to participate in the Palembang Asian Games. Pandak said the suspension would be lifted if the federation manages to settle its debt as requested by OCM. 'The Annual General Meeting will be held on December 14 over whether the minister of youth and sports will extend our repayment schedule. 'Among the proposals that will be submitted is to reduce the monthly payment amount. The federation's financial situation is also currently deteriorating and there are no financial resources for us,' he said, adding that the suspension had also affected MAHF's ranking in Asia and South-east Asia. In the meantime, Pandak said MAHF plans to collaborate with the Johor state government on holding an international invitational tournament involving South-east Asian countries next year. 'The international invitation tournament will be held in conjunction with Visit Johor Year 2022 which will be held at Educity, Iskandar Puteri,' he said. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Although every fan is entitled to his or her own opinions, those not on the field won't know what is actually happening during a match. That was stated by national Under-23 forward Azfar Fikri Azhar who stressed that players are the only ones feeling the pressure. Azfar said this after fans slammed the national team and FAM for their AFF Cup failure in Singapore last month. 'Not everyone understands football because on and off the field, it's different. They can say everything, but on the pitch, only the players know what is happening,' said Azfar. 'I have seen (online) what the fans said but I take everything positively.  'Let them say whatever they want. 'Our job is clear cut, respond with a win. If we win and emerge as champions, there won't be harsh criticism.' And Azfar hopes the fans will fully support and inspire the Malaysian team in the Asean Under-23 Championship in Phnom Penh, Cambodia from Feb 14-26. Though FAM have not called up core players Mukhairi Ajmal Mahadi, Harith Haiqal Adam Afkar, Sikh Izhan Nazrel Sikh Azman, Zikri Khalili, Luqman Hakim Shamsudin and Nik Akif Syahiran Nik Mat for the Asean mission, Azfar feels his team can still put up a good show. 'We can't just depend on them (core players) only. Don't tell me we can't win without them, we have plenty of quality players.' Azfar added that this is a chance for the players to prove themselves in Phnom Penh, and stake a strong claim for places in the Malaysian team to the Under-23 Asian Cup in Uzbekistan in June.  During last year's qualifiers, Azfar scored two goals, against Laos and Mongolia to help Malaysia emerge as group  champions and qualify for the competition proper. 

Defender Harith Haikal Adam Afkar hopes to play for the national youth side in the AFC Under-23 qualifiers in Mongolia on Oct 25-31. However, the Selangor-born may not get his wish as the Red Giants have yet to release him for international duty. Selangor are undecided as they may need him for the Malaysia Cup due to injuries in their squad. Harith said he will be disappointed if he does not join Brad Maloney's side for the qualifiers. 'It is still 50-50 after discussions with FA of Selangor technical director Michael Feichtenbeiner and coach Karsten Neitzel,' said Harith. 'It is my dream to play for the country, and even if I am released a few days before the qualifiers, I will go for it.' 'The Malaysia Cup is an annual tournament, and there is always a chance for me next year.  'However, the Mongolia assignment is my big chance to shine as I may not get a call up again in the future.' Harith added: 'Maloney wants me to play for his team. However, there are injury issues at Selangor. I have to wait and see whether I am released for the qualifiers.' In 2019, the Klang-born Harith helped the national youth team finish runners-up in the AFF Under-18 Championship.  He was also in the squad for the 2019 Philippines Sea Games but warmed the bench. Malaysia will open their Group J campaign in the qualifiers against Laos on Oct 25, followed by Mongolia three days later and Thailand on Oct 31.  Maloney's side will leave for Ulaanbaatar on Oct 20. 

AMID  the Covid-19 pandemic, BAM are expected to ink a new sponsorship deal with sports equipment company, Yonex, this week.    This will bring an end to the present six-year contract, worth RM60 million with Victor, signed in 2015.    Prior to the partnership with Victor, BAM were with Yonex for 15 years.    A source told Timesport yesterday that the new deal comes at a crucial time, with the pandemic having crippled sports around the world over the past one year.   'It's definitely helpful, given the current climate. This is good news for everybody.'   The new sponsorship deal will come as a huge boost to BAM as they prepare for the Tokyo Olympics.   This would also mean that Yonex will be the title sponsor for the Malaysia Open on May 25-30. BAM's other major sponsor is Celcom Axiata. 

There are few men in Malaysia who have managed to inflict some pain on JDT. Terengganu FC coach Nafuzi Zain is one of them.   JDT will have good reasons to be wary of Nafuzi in their Malaysia Cup semi-final second leg showdown against the Turtles today at the Sultan Ibrahim Stadium.   Nafuzi was the assistant coach to Irfan Bakti when Terengganu knocked out JDT 3-1 on aggregate in the 2018 Malaysia Cup semi-finals.   And Nafuzi was the man in charge when the Turtles became the first team to end JDT's 22-match unbeaten run at the Sultan Ibrahim Stadium in April. Terengganu won the Super League fixture 1-0.   So, Nafuzi will not lack confidence when he ventures into the Southern Tigers' backyard.    On paper, his team were the equal of JDT in the first leg after both teams drew 1-1 at Sultan Mizan Stadium on Monday.  But the Southern Tigers hold the advantage, thanks to an away goal.   But Nafuzi has belief. He believes that his men are capable of going all the way to win their first Malaysia Cup in 20 years.   It's not going to deter him though JDT are in the way.   Nafuzi wants the taste of cup glory again. He was a galvanising midfielder in the Terengganu team that won the Malaysia Cup in 2001.   The Teremggamu coach said he prefers to see today's battle end in regulation time but is prepared for all eventualities till penalty shootout.  'We have to cancel out JDT's away goal, so we need to score. They will try to stop our attackers early but we will be prepared.   'I'm confident my players will be able to deliver if we can execute our game plan well.'  'We know how strong JDT are at home although we had beaten them in the Super League. We have to work harder to repeat that win.    'The good thing is we tend to play better away as there's no pressure on the players, and we are also the underdogs in this game. JDT might have a bit more pressure playing in front of their home crowd.   'I have told the players to believe in themselves and have faith in the way we play. If our plans work out, we can spring an upset.      JDT coach Benjamin Mora said his men will be wiser after staging a comeback for a draw in the first leg after conceding a goal in the 15th minute.  'We have identified our mistake from the first leg and we don't want it to repeat. There's no denying that Terengganu are a good team and they have  always given us a tough fight.   'We have to be careful with their fast attacking game. They also have a good combination of experienced and young players but we will be ready for them.  'If we score a goal in this match, they will have to score two, but I believe our defence will be able to deny them.' 

KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 26 — A unit trust consultant told the Sessions Court here today that she had met with Kinabatangan Member of Parliament Datuk Seri Bung Moktar Radin and his wife Datin Seri Zizie Izette Abdul Samad concerning investment in Public Mutual Berhad's unit trust. Norhaili Ahmad Mokhtar, 45, said the meeting was arranged by her friend, Nik Juliana who is also a friend of Zizie Izette, at a hotel in early 2014, which was also attended by another investment agent Madhi Abdul Hamid. The 25th prosecution witness said that during the 10-minute meeting, she only had time to inform Bung Moktar about the proposed investment for Felcra which could provide more profit than a fixed deposit. 'I did not have time to present the Public Mutual unit trust investment proposal,' she said during the examination-in-chief by Deputy Public Prosecutor Mohd Sophian Zakaria at the corruption trial of Bung Moktar and his wife Zizie Izette before Judge Rozina Ayob. Asked by Mohd Sophian what was Bung Moktar's response after she explained the investment proposal, she said, 'At that time there was no response because Datuk was rushing to perform the Zohor prayer'. According to Norhaili, she conveyed her wish to get Bung Moktar's feedback to Zizie Izette of which the actress said 'I will try'. On the length of their meeting with Zizie Izette, the witness said, 'I'm not sure how long because it was during working hours and we had another appointment ...we didn't even drink anything'. Following the meeting, Norhaili said she contacted Nik Juliana to ask for her help in setting up another appointment with Bung Moktar so that she could present the proposal. 'I have contacted Nik Juliana to 'proceed' with Datuk Seri Bung Moktar. So, I asked Nik Juliana to speak to Datin Seri Zizie Izette to have another meeting,' she said, adding that she knew Zizie Izette through Nik Juliana in 2013. Norhaili will continue with her testimony tomorrow. On May 3 2019, Bung Moktar pleaded not guilty on two charges of receiving bribes amounting to RM2.2 million and RM262,500 as gratification to obtain the approval of Felcra to invest RM150 million in Public Mutual unit trust. Bung Moktar, 64, who was the non-executive chairman of Felcra then, was accused of receiving bribes from Madhi via Zizie Izette at the Public Bank branch in Taman Melawati here between 12.30pm and 5pm on June 12, 2015. He also pleaded not guilty to a bribe of RM335,500 from Norhaili under the name of Zizie for the same cause and at the same place on June 19, 2015. Zizie Izette, 44, also pleaded not guilty on three charges of abetting with her husband on the matter at the same place, date and time. 

JASIN, Dec 29 — The persistent high water level in Sungai Kesang has hampered efforts to pump out stagnant floodwaters from around Kampung Lanchang, Merlimau here, Melaka Fire and Rescue Department (JBPM) director Abu Bakar Katain said. He said JBPM personnel would carry out the process in a day or two, depending on the current situation, but so far the level of the stagnant floodwaters which is surrounding seven houses, is at the same height of the water in the river. 'We have been trying to pump out water from the area but to no avail as the water will still flow back into the area,' he said when met by reporters here today. Earlier, he attended the Post-Flood Volunteer Squad Programme which saw the participation of about 100 volunteers from various agencies including the Civil Defence Force (APM), Royal Malaysia Police (PDRM), Jasin District Youth and Sports Department and non-governmental organisations (NGOs). Abu Bakar said Melaka JBPM had also been helping in other tasks including clean up of the affected indoor and outdoor areas, removal and arrangement of bulk items such as home appliances and furniture, sanitation as well as channeling donations to the flood victims. Meanwhile, a resident, Azhar Jaafar, 54, said this time around, the stagnant floodwaters had caused his family to remain longer at the Sekolah Kebangsaan (SK) Parit Penghulu relief centre and they have been taking shelter there since December 19. 'I hope the weather will continue to improve and the stagnant water around our house will recede as soon as possible as we can't wait to be back home after being away for 10 days,' he said. 

FOLLOWING criticism that this year's M-League schedule did not give the national team much room for training, next season's fixtures is described as 'better planned'.  It is not out yet, the Malaysian Football League (MFL) are still fine tuning it, and collaborating with national coach Tan Cheng Hoe.  However, a  domestic league that is 'kinder' to Harimau Malaya, with more time for national training, is in the works.   MFL are set to release the 2022 M-League calendar no later than second week of next month.   MFL chief executive officer Stuart Ramalingam said the calendar is planned with the national team agenda as  priority.   Harimau Malaya have two major assignments next year: the Asian Cup third round qualifiers (June 8-14) and the  AFF Cup.   'The 2021 calendar was an unfortunate situation which had circumstantial impact due to lockdowns from the pandemic, and also restrictions by local and foreign governments,' said Stuart.   'In 2022, we hope to have an efficient solution for all as we also look toward AFC competitions involving JDT,  Kedah and KL City who will have the opportunity to perform at the highest level.  'The players involved in these teams also make up the primary core of the national team, so we consider this as part of the national agenda.'   Stuart said the delay in the release of the domestic calendar is due to changes based on the AFC competition schedule.   He said they have been discussing  with Cheng Hoe on the national team's programmes for next year.   Meanwhile, MFL aim to bring back  the FA Cup to next year's calendar after it was not held for two straight years due to Covid-19.   'There is plan for it to be included because the FA Cup serves a different agenda which sees lesser teams compete against bigger teams,' said Stuart.   'This is a great tool for development and exposure as the teams will get the opportunity to perform outside of the league.'   In the past, the winners of the FA Cup were rewarded with an automatic slot to the continental AFC Cup.   Malaysia's allocation for AFC competitions is one spot for  Asian Champions League group stage and two slots for the AFC Cup group stage. 

IPOH, Jan 15 — Several roads in Ipoh district will be closed from tomorrow to Jan 19 in conjunction with Thaipusam celebrations. Ipoh district police chief ACP Yahaya Hassan said the main Thaipusam celebrations on Tuesday will be held at two locations, Sri Subramaniar Temple Gunung Cheroh, Jalan Raja Musa Aziz and Sri Maha Mariamman Temple, Jalan Sungai Pari, Buntong here. 'Therefore, to ensure road safety and the smoothness of this year's celebrations, several main roads in Ipoh city will be closed or diverted in stages from 8 pm tomorrow,' he said in a statement tonight. Yahaya said the roads included Jalan Sungai Pari, Jalan Tun Perak, Jalan Lahat, Jalan Sultan Yusoff, Jalan Sultan Iskandar, Jalan Sultan Idris Shah, Jalan Laxamana and Jalan Raja Musa Aziz. Also, Jalan Raja Ekram, Jalan Dato' Yeoh Cheng Lee, Jalan Dato' Onn Jaafar, Jalan Horley, Jalan Lim Bo Seng and Jalan S.P Seenivasagam will be closed. 'Motorists, especially Ipoh residents, are advised to plan their journeys and choose alternative routes to avoid being trapped in traffic during these road closures,' he added. 

KUCHING, Dec 11 — The first-past-the-post voting system meant voters must engage in tactical voting in the state election here to achieve the reforms they desire, said Sarawak Pakatan Harapan chief Chong Chen Jen. He said the voting system meant any vote that did not go to the candidate with the best chance of winning for the Opposition was effectively wasted. Chong, who is contesting in Padungan, acknowledged that there were other Opposition parties in the state but argued that those in PH were well established, have a long history of cooperation, and possessed national support. 'Indeed, the presence of other Opposition will split the vote, so, we call on the supporters to focus on cooperation between these three parties 'A vote casted to them will be a waste of the vote so let's focus our votes to the three parties,' he told a press conference today. This election, various parties were challenging the ruling GPS. Aside from PKR, DAP and Amanah from PH, there were also the Parti Sarawak Bersatu (PSB), Sarawak People's Aspiration Party (Aspirasi) and Parti Bumi Kenyalang (PBK). When asked if PH would cooperate with other local Opposition parties to form government, Chong said only that 'politics is the art of possibilities.' 'I think so far let us focus our efforts on winning as many seats as possible. What happens after this we will discuss with all three parties. 'I am not saying to reject or not to reject because when we want to establish a government, there must be agreement in principle between all members of the government,' he said. PSB is the strongest among the Opposition parties on paper, fielding 70 candidates including several former ministers. Sarawakians will vote in their 12th state election on December 18. 

PUTRAJAYA, Jan 14 — The government has approved a grant of RM7 million to the National Legal Aid Foundation (YBGK) this year for lawyers to represent those in need in criminal cases, said Attorney General Tan Sri Idrus Harun. Idrus said this is an illustration of the government's continuous commitment and willingness to acknowledge legal aid services to ensure equal access to justice for those in need of legal redress. 'On the robust partnership between the Attorney General's Chambers (AGC), the Bar Council and other members of the legal fraternity through YBGK, as the chairman of YBGK, I am glad to announce that over the years, the number of services provided by YBGK has tremendously grown from 91,544 in 2013 to 215,990 in 2020. 'This growth resulted in an increase in YBGK's expenses from approximately RM2 million in 2013 to RM9.1 million in 2020. Consequently, the government has also raised the grant given to YBGK to cover those expenses. The total amount received by YBGK since its inception is RM58,089,200,' he said in his speech at the opening of the Legal Year 2022 here, today. Meanwhile, Idrus said these past two years had witnessed the three components in the administration of justice — the Judiciary, the AGC and the Bar, working together to overcome the unforeseeable challenges brought about by the pandemic. He said the three components in the administration of justice indeed echo the same aspiration, desire and vision to uphold the rule of law and to maintain integrity of the legal profession whilst embracing the new normal. 'I do not wish to see a decline in public confidence in any of these three components, as the public views us as interrelated and not distinct. 'Hence, the Judiciary, the AGC and the Bar must come together with one vision and one aim, and join hands to create a conducive working environment towards attaining justice in these trying times,' he said. Idrus said in addition to the Covid-related legal work, they (AGC) kept the legal machinery running in a relatively different operating environment. 'We never abandoned our core work. It is by no means an easy feat. At this point, allow me to quote Sir Francis Bacon, the Attorney General of England in the 17th century, who described the duties of my office as 'the painfullest task in the realm'. This saying holds true, especially in these trying times. 'I am indeed humbled and heartened to witness my officers who have had painstakingly braced the challenging situation and ensured that work continued in innovative ways. 'They were quick to adapt. Remote hearings, appeals, meetings and even international conferences and negotiations were conducted via various online platforms almost seamlessly,' he said. At the same event, president of Malaysian Bar AG Kalidas in his speech said the Bar had also engaged with the authorities regarding the continued access to legal services during the 'Lockdown Period' in mid-2021. He said the Bar made firm representations that lawyers be allowed to continue providing their services, and be able to effectively represent their clients. 'As the criminal justice system continues to function, equally, lawyers must be able to do so as well. Further, in the case of our YBGK lawyers, they are called to represent the accused in court. 'Without the YBGK lawyers, these persons will likely go unrepresented as they have no other means to obtain legal representation,' he said. 

KOTA KINABALU: Sabah Law Society (SLS) President Roger Chin who was re-elected unopposed, pledged to complete 'unfinished business'.  With recent amendments to the Advocates Ordinance of Sabah (the Ordinance) which came into force on Jan 10, members of the Executive Committee were elected for a two-year term instead of one.  'With the additional period, the newly elected Executive Committee will focus on completing unfinished business from previous terms,' he said in conjunction with the fourth ALS Annual General Meeting yesterday.  The other office bearers re-elected for the 2021-2023 term unopposed were Mohamed Nazim Maduarin as vice-president, Ryan Soo as secretary and Song Wei Wan as assistant secretary. Elected unopposed as the treasurer was Jamadi Saleh.  Five committee members were re-elected unopposed, namely, Wendy Lee, Chan Wai Ling, Marianne Ghani, Alvin Leong, and Adrian Cham while Dominic Ghani was elected unopposed as a committee member. Chin said among the most pressing issues was to establish an International Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Centre for East Malaysia.  'Such a centre will be able to leverage on the relocation of the Indonesian capital to East Kalimantan, Sabah's leadership role in the Brunei Darussalam-Indonesia-Malaysia-Philippines East Asean Growth Area (BIMP-EAGA) and ultimately increase investor confidence in Sabah,' he said.  Next on the agenda was to develop a Malaysia Agreement 1963 (MA63) handbook/module on the historical and legal aspects of the MA63 which will allow the public, especially the younger generation to understand its importance in the formation of Malaysia.  'SLS was entrusted by the Sabah and Sarawak Affairs Division (BHESS) under the purview of the Minister in the Prime Minister's Department (Sabah and Sarawak Affairs) Datuk Seri Dr Maximus Ongkili to complete this important task and this module could be the standard material for schools and public engagements.'  SLS also intends to follow up with and finalise land it applied to house its secretariat, of which the building would symbolically be a recognition of the Sabah State rights (MA63) and the State autonomy over the legal profession in Sabah.  'SLS will continue to expand legal horizons beyond Sabah to capitalise on opportunities both regionally and internationally.  'To continue to work with the relevant government departments to review laws affecting investment and come up with a comprehensive checklist for foreign investors of the legal requirements for transparency and to promote investor confidence in Sabah and the Rule of Law.  'We also want to assist the state government on the urgent need for law reform in the state. Many existing local laws relating to inter alia land and strata titles are outdated, having been drafted in colonial times, and the SLS hopes that the state government will be willing to move with the times,' he added.  SLS would also introduce rules to permit law firms to practise and operate through a Group Law Practice, which would essentially allow small law firms to practise and operate as a group by sharing premises and facilities while remaining as separate entities. 

KUCHING, Dec 18 ― The Election Commission (EC) has reported an 11 per cent voter turnout in the Sarawak state election as of 9am today since the polling centres opened at 7.30am.  A total of 1,866 polling centres, involving 3,555 channels, have been set up and, depending on the number of voters, several centres are expected to close in stages as early as noon, before the polling ends at 5pm. The 12th state election, involving 1,213,769 ordinary voters out of 1,252,014 registered voters, will be managed by some 46,565 election officials in all 82 state seats. On December 14, a total of 18,141 out of 20,360 registered early voters had cast their votes while 17,885 voted by post. There will be 13 three-cornered fights; four-cornered (33); five-cornered (24); six-cornered (seven); and eight-cornered (one). There will also be four straight fights. Gabungan Parti Sarawak (GPS) is fielding 82 candidates for the polls, followed by Parti Bumi Kenyalang (PBK) 73, Parti Sarawak Bersatu (PSB) 70, Parti Keadilan Rakat (PKR) 28, DAP 26, Parti Aspirasi Rakyat Sarawak (Aspirasi) 15, Parti Bansa Dayak Sarawak Baru (PBDSB) 11, Parti Amanah Negara (Amanah) eight, Parti Sedar Rakyat Sarawak (Sedar) five and PAS one. Thirty independent candidates are in the fray as well. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia-born international film star Tan Sri Michelle Yeoh lent a helping hand on Christmas during clean-up after the recent flood in Taman Sri Muda, Shah Alam. The actress was also joined by Berjaya Group founder Tan Sri Vincent Tan. Both Yeoh and Tan took part in the post-flood cleanup with a team of the 502 Territorial Army under the 4th Malaysian Infantry Division (4 Div), Shah Alam City Council (MBSA) and the Taiwan Buddhist Tzu-Chi Malaysia Foundation. The clean-up took place at Sekolah Kebangsaan Taman Sri Muda 2. Also present was Armed Forces chief General Tan Sri Affendi Buang. Yeoh after the clean-up said: 'It is truly heartwarming to see all here, regardless of religion and race. 'We are one. This is the true spirit of Christmas.' 

KUALA LUMPUR: The Agriculture and Food Industry Ministry (MAFI) has clarified that the permission to import frozen chicken from Thailand and China is only a temporary measure. Such imports will cease once supply from within the country is sufficient and its price stabilises said its minister, Datuk Seri Ronald Kiandee. He said at present the import of chickens was being handled by several companies that were permitted to import 10,000 metric tonnes or 5.5 million chickens a month. Kiandee said the permission was only given for three months from December 2021 to February 2022 with strict monitoring being put in place by MAFI. 'In early December there was a shortage of chicken so prices soared and our records show we had a low supply of chicken in the market when the economic sector reopened. So we needed to increase the supply (by importing). 'We are giving temporary flexibility to cover the shortage, if local chicken production is sufficient and the price is stable, we will stop immediately (the import),' he told BH, today. He was commenting on a BH survey at several locations yesterday which found that the price of wet goods including chicken saw a drop in prices after the government expanded the Malaysian Maximum Family Price Scheme (SHMKM) from yesterday. Deputy Domestic Trade and Consumer Affairs Minister Datuk Rosol Wahid also informed that the SHMKM compliance inspection found that the price of controlled goods showed a decrease, including chicken. 'Some items listed as price-controlled items such as fresh chicken under SHMKM phase two showed a decrease and the price level is more stable in the Peninsula compared to the maximum price set in first SHMKM phase which lasted from Dec 7 to yesterday,' he said. Commenting on fish supply, Kiandee said the country had sufficient stocks of frozen fish in the custody of the Malaysian Fisheries Development Authority (LKIM) and the National Fishermen's Association (NEKMAT). 'When there is a shortage in the market, we will release the stock. 'We in the ministry are constantly monitoring the continuity of the country's food supply, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic and due to floods across the country,' he said. On Dec 1, Prime Minister, Datuk Seri Ismail Sabri Yaakob instructed MAFI to import chicken and release frozen fish stocks to enable the people to get supplies at lower prices. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 21 — The ministers and senior officers from 13 Tiger Range Countries (TRCs) have expressed their commitment to saving the wildlife at the Fourth Asia Ministerial Conference (AMC4) on Tiger Conservation which ended today. The TRCs consist of Malaysia, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Cambodia, China, India, Indonesia, Laos, Myanmar, Nepal, Russia, Thailand, and Vietnam. Energy and Natural Resources Ministry in a statement today said the TRCs also adopted the Kuala Lumpur Joint Statement on Tiger Conservation which emphasised joint commitments towards tiger conservation. It said the joint statement reiterated that the TRCs, being custodians of the last remaining tigers in the wild, have a common goal of stabilising and strengthening wild tiger populations and their prey across their historical ranges, adding that the statement brought about renewed impetus to achieve this goal. More than 300 participants including local and international non-governmental organisations and the private sector took part in the three-day conference. The final day of AMC4 culminated with a ministerial meeting of TRCs, chaired by Energy and Natural Resources Deputy Minister Datuk Ali Biju and officiated by Prime Minister Datuk Seri Ismail Sabri Yaakob. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Dec 3 — The country's Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) performance was good in 2020 despite navigating the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the third series of the SDG Indicators Report released by the Department of Statistics Malaysia (DoSM). Minister in the Prime Minister's Department (Economy) Datuk Seri Mustapa Mohamed said however, some indicators were affected by the health crisis that hit the world. 'Out of the 146 indicators, 49 (34 per cent) have improved, 34 (23 per cent) have not changed, while 41 (28 per cent) have decreased. The remaining 22 (15 per cent) are non-statistical indicators,' he said in a statement today. Mustapa said among the indicators that recorded improvement were air and water quality, criminal cases which had reduced, Internet use, the number of women in management positions which had increased, and the incidence of fatal occupational injuries. Among the indicators that have declined due to the pandemic were the annual growth rate of gross domestic product per capita, the number of passengers at the airport, and the rate of absolute poverty and unemployment. The SDGs guide the government in formulating policies to ensure a sustainable future. This encompasses all the development challenges of the modern world, including economic, social, and environmental. Mustapa said Covid-19 has affected three dimensions of the SDGs, namely social, economy and environment in the country's march towards achieving the 2030 Agenda. He said the implementation of the movement control order (MCO) in 2020 had affected economic and social activities, of which in transport services, the number of passengers handled by airports showed a significant decline of 75.5 per cent from 109.4 million in 2019 to 26.8 million in 2020 due to border closures. 'The pandemic has also caused lifestyle changes in the use of digital technology and the Internet as the norms of social distancing, home-based teaching and learning (PdPR), work from home, and the nationwide MCO took a toll. 'This resulted in the percentage of individuals using the internet increased from 84.2 per cent in 2019 to 89.6 per cent in 2020,' he said. He said the incidence of absolute poverty also increased from 5.6 per cent in 2019 to 8.4 per cent in 2020 based on the national poverty line monthly income for households of RM2,208 per month due to Covid-19. 'Malaysia has made a significant progress in the mainstream SDG funding in national development planning. The 11th Malaysia Plan (11MP), 12MP and Budget 2022 have been aligned to the SDGs. 'The cooperation of all government agencies is important in understanding, appreciating and implementing the goals of sustainable development at the state, district administration and local authority levels,' he said. 

PUTRAJAYA, Feb 22 — The rollout of the fifth-generation (5G) network must be done accordingly to avoid losing potential investors, said Communications and Multimedia Minister Tan Sri Annuar Musa. He said the 5G rollout needed to be done within three years with at least 80 per cent of the populated areas being covered with the network. 'If they (the investors) wish to come to Malaysia, they will ask whether this country has 5G facility or not and if there is, they will come. 'If we say there will be in five years' time, they (potential investors) will go somewhere else so you will lose potential investors. That is something crucial for the well-being of the country and rakyat (people),' he told reporters after launching the Hari Keselamatan Internet 2022 – Edisi Malaysia (Internet Safety Day 2022 — Malaysia Edition), here, today. Annuar said he would do the necessary to resolve related problems to ensure the rollout of 5G would be done accordingly. 'Whatever problem that comes along, I will make sure the things will be resolved. 'Please remember, when we launched 4G, it took eight years to achieve 80 per cent we can't roll out our 5G with the same speed,' he said. On Friday (Feb 18), Annuar said the Communications and Multimedia Ministry and Finance Ministry (MOF) would table a Cabinet Ministers' memorandum next month to resolve the issues related to Digital Nasional Berhad (DNB) 'once and for all'. He said the position of DNB and the Single Wholesale Network or Dual Wholesale Network system which has become a debate and polemic should be resolved soon. DNB, the government's special purpose vehicle (SPV) for the 5G rollout, had previously announced the availability of the network in certain parts of Putrajaya, Cyberjaya and Kuala Lumpur beginning December 15, 2021. DNB is committed to an accelerated schedule to roll out the 5G coverage to 80 per cent of the population by 2024. 

BANGI, Jan 25 — Fresh from his meetings with the protagonists, Youth and Sports Minister Datuk Seri Ahmad Faizal Azumu has hinted that a solution to the Badminton Association of Malaysia (BAM)-Lee Zii Jia issue is in sight. Ahmad Faizal, who met world number seven Zii Jia and also former world junior champion Goh Jin Wei yesterday, said all parties seemed committed to resolving the controversy in the interests of the nation. 'I have also spoken to BAM president Tan Sri Mohamad Norza Zakaria; both parties are committed to placing national interests as the utmost priority,' he told reporters after opening the National Youth Consultative Council meeting here today. Commenting on his separate closed-door meetings with Zii Jia and Jin Wei, he said both players gave different reasons for quitting BAM, which led to their two-year suspension from international competitions. 'I listened and believe BAM would also listen to what they have to say; so we pray for a good outcome. It's inappropriate for me to disclose publicly what was discussed (at meetings). It was more of my advice to them, like a brother guiding his younger siblings,' he added. 'I hope we all respect this. Any problems can be resolved in the best way possible if personal and group interests are sacrificed for the sake of national interests. 'This is what I told the two, and I think they understand. I'm praying for Zii Jia's meeting with the BAM leadership today to lead to the best solution,' he said. On Friday, BAM deputy president Datuk Seri Jahaberdeen Mohamed Yunoos announced that the national body would not register Zii Jia for any international competitions for two years effective from Jan 18. This followed All England champion Zii Jia's decision to quit BAM on Jan 11 to turn professional, because he could not take the pressure and 'regimented lifestyle' in BAM. Jin Wei, who resigned from BAM last September before eventually turning professional, was similarly suspended for two years effective Oct 31, 2021. 

KUALA LUMPUR: More than 200,000 children, from aged five to 11, have received their first vaccine dose since the Covid-19 National Immunisation Programme for Children (PICKids) rolled out early this month. Data on CovidNow showed that the total number increased to 206,748 or 5.8 per cent of the said group after 36,306 doses were administered nationwide yesterday.  Melaka is the state with highest vaccination rate among children at 14 per cent. Sarawak and the Klang Valley are the other two with a vaccination rate above 10 per cent at 12.4 and 10.9 per cent respectively.  The bottom three states with vaccination rates below two-per-cent are Terengganu (1.9 per cent), Pahang (1.6 per cent) and Kelantan (1.1 per cent).  Meanwhile, 56.8 per cent of the adult population or 13,373,479 people have been boosted. Klang Valley has the highest booster rate at 81.8 per cent (5,016,512) while Kelantan and Sabah are among the states with low booster rates where only 20.8 per cent and 20.7 per cent of the adult population have received their third doses. 

SHAH ALAM, Dec 21 — A trailer lorry driver was charged in the Magistrate's Court here today with 10 counts of driving in a reckless or dangerous manner that resulted in the death of 10 individuals along the Elite Expressway, last Saturday. Mohd Rafi Jaafar, 37, however, pleaded not guilty after the charges were read out to him separately by a court interpreter before Magistrate Nur Faizah Abdul Sani. He was charged with driving a trailer lorry in a dangerous manner to the extent of causing the death of Norul Naziah Buyong, 37; Mohd Razarul Amin Abdul Razak, 17; Razatul Aliah Abdul Razak, 16; Puteri Hidayah Abdul Razak, 12; Mohd Aizat Syazwan Abdul Razak, 10; Mohd Rokaizat Rezky Abdul Razak, nine; Mohd Hidayat Hakimie Abdul Razak, seven; Puteri Nur Ain Syalwana Abdul Razak, three; Muhammad Raid Fathi Abd Razak,10 months and Mohamad Rahimi Rolex, 27. Mohd Rafi was alleged to have committed the offence at KM8.3 of the Elite Expressway, Shah Alam-bound, in Subang Jaya, Petaling at 12.02 am on Dec 18. The charges were framed under Section 41(1) of the Road Transport Act 1987 which carries a a jail term of up to 10 years and a fine not exceeding RM20,000, upon conviction.  Earlier, Selangor chief public prosecutor Mohammad Al-Saufi Hashim said the prosecution did not offer bail to the accused as the offence was non-bailable. However, he proposed bail to be set at RM5,000 for each charge if the court wanted to allow bail. 'We also propose the court to impose additional conditions that the accused must surrender his driving licence to the court and he cannot disturb the witnesses,' he said. Mohd Rafi requested for a lower bail, saying that he had to support his wife who was not working and three children. Nue Faizah then set bail at RM1,000 for each charge and ordered the accused to report to the nearest police station once a month and fixed January 26, 2022, for mention. On December 18, the media reported that a mother and her eight children were among 10 people who were killed in an accident involving four vehicles at the USJ Rest and Service Area (RR) of the ELITE Expressway, near here. 

KUALA LUMPUR: About 90 per cent of the country's teenagers aged between 12 and 17 have received their Covid-19 vaccines.  Health Minister Khairy Jamaluddin said the country has reached a milestone with 90 per cent of them having received at least one dose of the vaccine.  'For seniors, get your booster as soon as it is available,' he said via Twitter today.  To date, 86.5 per cent of the teenage population have completed their vaccination while 10 per cent are unvaccinated, according to the CovidNow portal updated yesterday.  As of Dec 5, 77.9 per cent of the country's total population had been fully vaccinated while 79.2 per cent have received at least one dose.  There are 25,443,839 fully vaccinated individuals, 436,050 partially vaccinated while 7,317,045 are unvaccinated.  According to latest projections, Malaysia will reach 80 per cent or 26,125,920 fully vaccinated individuals by May 24 next year - 169 more days to go.  A total 54,091,375 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered as of yesterday, with 2,958,239 being booster shots. 

KUALA KRAI: The Kampung Jirat bridge which was submerged in floodwaters on Saturday, is now open to motorists. District police chief Superintendent Suzaimi Mohamad said motorists could use the bridge since this morning after the floodwaters receded last night. 'The bridge has been inundated for more than three days and it is now available for villagers. 'But they must be careful when passing the wooden bridge,' he added. Suzaimi said Saturday's incident did not completely cut-off links to the village as there were other alternative roads. He added the bridge was also seldom used by villagers. 'Kampung Jirat bridge is located in a low-lying area and is regularly submerged by floodwaters when monsoon season arrives,' he added. He said the flood situation in the district was still under control as lesser rain hit the state since yesterday. 

KOTA KINABALU: A Filipino was sentenced to death by the High Court here for killing his countryman six years ago. Ismail Rasad, 47, was found guilty of murdering Md Adzmar Alex, 19, at an unnumbered house in Kampung Rampayan in Manggatal on May 1, 2016. Both were IMM13 document holders. In her decision, judge Datuk Nurchaya Arshad among others held that the accused failed to raise the insanity defence under Section 84 of the Penal Code and to raise a reasonable doubt against the charge. Ismail was convicted under Section 302 of the Penal Code which carries the death sentence upon conviction. He was initially sentenced to 25 years' jail by the High Court here on Dec 15, 2017, after the accused pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of manslaughter. At that time the court ruled that the prosecution had failed to prove the essential ingredients of murder under Section 302 of the Penal Code but had successfully proven all ingredients of the charge on manslaughter under Section 304(a) of the Penal Code. However, on Sept 24, 2019, the Court of Appeal here allowed the prosecution's appeal to have the accused called to enter his defence on his original charge of murder. The accused was the sole defence witness. Ismail was represented by counsels Ram Singh, Kimberly Ye and Chen Wen Jye. 

KUCHING: Gabungan Parti Sarawak (GPS) candidate for Bukit Saban, Datuk Amar Douglas Uggah Embas, who is defending the Iban majority seat for a second time, is facing two new opponents in the 12th Sarawak election.   The caretaker deputy chief minister said while it may seem like a walk in the park for him, he and the coalition were not letting their guard down.  'For GPS, we take the election very seriously. We treat all our opponents as formidable opponents. We must never be overconfident,' the veteran politician told reporters after filing his nomination form at the sub-district office in Spaoh today.  He also reminded his supporters not to be overconfident in facing the election.  At the end of the day, we may regret it. We must make sure that our machinery is well oiled and in top gear to take on any challenges along the way,' he said.   'Our ultimate aim is to win and make sure the GPS forms the government again after this election,' said Uggah, a former Member of Parliament (MP) for Betong constituency which includes the Bukit Saban state seat. AdvertisementSkip Uggah will face-off in a three-cornered fight with PKR candidate Mikhael Matthew Abdullah and Andria Dundang of Parti Sarawak Bersatu (PSB).  He said GPS had shown itself to be a capable state government in the last five years in governing Sarawak, keeping the people united and bringing progress and prosperity.  The former State Disaster Management Committee also reminded all to observe the Covid-19 standard operating procedures (SOP) in place during the campaign period of the election.  'I will continue to remind my supporters while we are making all efforts in campaigning, we must always comply with the SOP. We do not want a similar situation as what had happened in Sabah, after its state polls in September, where there was a big surge in positive Covid-19 cases.  'As we can see in Melaka due to the high compliance, the state which had held its state election last month had not experienced any sudden increase,' he added. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 4 — Police have detected an online scam syndicate (Macau Scam) that used fake video calls involving pictures of the faces of police officers to inform victims allegedly involved in money laundering and corruption cases. Sentul district police chief ACP Beh Eng Lai said a syndicate member would introduce himself as an insurance officer before a 'police officer' was brought online to accuse the victim of being involved in the crimes. 'This syndicate confuses the public by making video calls using the application to prove the authenticity of the caller when in fact it has been modified to show mouth movements and edited facial images. 'This tactic can deceive the public and result in losses,' he said in a statement tonight. He said a police report involving the fake video call was lodged yesterday by a 40-year-old housewife who fell victim to the syndicate. 'The case is being investigated under Section 420/511 of the Penal Code for attempted fraud,' he said, adding that the public should be careful with calls received. Beh said police were serious about cases involving fake calls that used profile pictures of police and other enforcement officers to deceive the public. The public is advised to visit the website https://ccid.rmp.gov.my/semakmule/ or contact the Sentul district police headquarters at 03-40482222 to check or report on suspicious activities involving the syndicate. 

TAIPING, Jan 23 — There is no necessity to dissolve the Perak Legislative Assembly as the government has strong support, including from the opposition, said Mentri Besar Datuk Seri Saarani Mohamad. He said the political situation in Perak was different from that in Johor which had a slim majority, which may have led to the dissolution of the State Legislative Assembly. 'I don't know what the reason in Johor was, probably due to the slim majority. However, in Perak, I currently have strong support from parties backing the state government and also from the opposition. 'As such, there is no reason for us to dissolve the state government because we still have time and opportunity to develop the state,' he told reporters after officiating the netball court at the Aulong Sports Arena here today. He was asked to comment about the position of the Perak state government after the Sultan of Johor, Sultan Ibrahim Sultan Iskandar, consented to the dissolution of the Johor State Legislative Assembly yesterday. In the 59-seat state assembly, the Perak government currently has the support from 36 assemblymen, namely 25 from Barisan Nasional (BN); Bersatu (four); PAS (three); Parti Bangsa Malaysia (three); and Independent (one). A total of 30 seats are needed to secure a slim majority. In another development, Saarani said he attended today's event at the invitation of Aulong assemblyman Nga Kor Ming, who is also state DAP chairman, and not at the party's invitation. 'Even though there are differences of opinion and views, I provide the same amount of allocation to the opposition assemblymen to spend for the people's needs,' he said. 

KUALA LUMPUR: All cases of fake Covid-19 vaccination certificates involve inoculation by private practitioners, or privately-purchased vaccination. Health Minister Khairy Jamaluddin said the standard procedure was for all vaccinations under the Covid-19 National Immunisation Programme to report to the ministry through the MyVAS system for record-keeping and issuance of the vaccination certificate.AdvertisementSkip 'However, in these incidences, what has happened was the private medical practitioner involved had given a false report on the vaccination to the Health Ministry. 'At the moment, investigations are still being conducted by the police and the ministry will cooperate fully,' he said in a press conference in Parliament today. Of late, police had received reports of private clinics allegedly issuing fake Covid-19 vaccination certificates for a fee. A recent case was in Gombak, where police had arrested six workers and the owner of a polyclinic. Selangor police chief Datuk Arjunaidi Mohamed said the polyclinic's clients were initially charged up to RM3,000 each for the service, but the fee was then reduced to RM500.  The polyclinic had received the Covid-19 vaccine supply from the Health Ministry but had allegedly thrown away the vaccines with the empty bottles returned to the ministry to justify the issuance of vaccination certificates. Meanwhile, on Umrah travels, Khairy said the Health Ministry, together with the Tourism, Arts and Culture Ministry, had conducted an engagement session with the Umrah Travel Agencies Association to get their feedback on the direction of the industry while awaiting the temporary postponement to be lifted. Among the issues raised by industry players include the standard operating procedure (SOP) on Umrah travels, the issue of refunds and rescheduling of flights, insurance coverage, reopening timeline and aid to the tourism industry. 'During the session, the tourism, arts and culture minister and myself stated our commitment to refine each issue and suggestion raised to the respective ministries before presenting the proposed improvement to the Covid-19 Quartet Ministers Meeting soon. 'Among them include the screening process upon arrival at Kuala Lumpur International Airport, quarantine whether at quarantine stations or at home, and also the role of Umrah travel agencies before, during and after performing Umrah,' said Khairy. He added that both ministries remained committed to finalising the risk assessment process and the SOP for Umrah travels by February this year. 

KUALA LUMPUR:     THE Federation of Malaysian Consumers Associations (Fomca) has called on insurance companies and workshops  to ease the burden of car repairs on owners who do not have flood coverage.    Fomca chief executive officer Dr Saravanan Thambirajah said the sudden floods would have caught many new car owners off guard as they might have not subscribed for the optional flood coverage in their motor insurance policy. 'So, only those who have subscribed for it can file for insurance claims. Uninsured consumers will have to fork out their  money to cover repairing costs. 'However, Fomca hopes that insurance companies will be considerate towards new car owners and ease their costs of repairing, where possible. Car service centres should also roll out rebates for affected vehicle owners,' he told the New Straits Times. Saravanan advised consumers who lost their documents during the floods to get replacements  at the National Registration Department.  Continuous rain since Dec 17 caused massive floods that  crippled the Klang Valley and   parts of the peninsula over the weekend. Besides forcing thousands of people to evacuate their homes,   the floods also damaged cars and other vehicles that were submerged for days. The General Insurance Association of Malaysia and the Malaysian Takaful Association, on Monday, urged   policyholders to review their  coverage to ensure their properties were insured against floods. They said   claims  for policyholders who were insured against floods would be expedited. Meanwhile, Allianz General Insurance Company (Malaysia) Bhd has deployed four-wheel-drive vehicles and a team of adjusters in Selangor and Pahang to facilitate  claims by  its policyholders. Allianz general head of claims, Damian Williams, said customers could call 1-800-22-5542 to file their claims and an adjuster would be sent within 24 hours to survey the affected property. 'These are unprecedented circumstances and the damage has been immense. We have mobilised our Allianz-branded 4x4s and team of adjusters on Friday. 'However, due to the forced closures of major roads and highways and inaccessibility, as well as the influx of cases, our customers will see some delays in service and assistance,' he said. Damian said the company would pay a full claims settlement or an interim payment for individual policyholders (such as Smart Home Cover) within five days of the adjuster's  visit. Customers with fire insurance (commercial lines) can expect an interim payment within five days of the visit from the adjuster, with a full  settlement  between 21 and 28 days. Damian said  if the company was unable to settle the claim before the 28th day,  a second interim payment would be rolled out before the 30th day. 

KOTA MARUDU, Jan 8 ― All quarters should give space to the authorities to thoroughly investigate allegations on share purchase involving Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) chief commissioner Tan Sri Azam Baki, said Datuk Seri Ismail Sabri Yaakob. The prime minister said investigations were being conducted by various parties, including the Securities Commission (SC) and MACC itself, proving that the government was not keeping quiet on the matter as alleged. 'I am always informed and keep tabs on issues related to MACC. Action has been taken and the impression given that the government is keeping quiet is wrong. MACC is an independent commission with its own procedure to handle such matters. 'Let's wait for the investigation to be completed. We cannot jump into conclusion that Azam Baki is guilty. We have to be fair to all and only take action after the investigation is completed,' he told a press conference after presenting cash aid and fruit baskets to 206 families affected by floods here today. Also present were Sabah Chief Minister Datuk Hajiji Noor and Minister in the Prime Minister's Department (Sabah and Sarawak Affairs) Datuk Seri Dr Maximus Ongkili, who is the Member of Parliament for Kota Marudu. 

KOTA KINABALU: The Sabah Commercial Vehicle Licensing Board (CVLB) has already told the management of Kinabalu International Airport (KKIA) to provide a waiting area for e-hailing drivers last year.   Its chairman Datuk Chin Kim Hiung said a letter was sent on Dec 23 to the management with proposals to reduce traffic congestion and waiting time at the airport.   'If the proposals were to be implemented, it will provide a waiting area for e-hailing drivers to send and pick-up passengers who have made their bookings.     'The management of e-hailing rides will be more organised and easier for passengers without disrupting the traffic flow,' said Chin.   He was responding to calls by KKIA Limousine and Taxi Association chairman Shamsuddin Mohd Shah for him to resign yesterday for failing to address the issue at the airport.   On geo-fencing to be set up at KKIA, Chin said a meeting was held on Dec 10 last year, where the e-hailing operator (eHO) had informed that it had been implemented for drivers.   The meeting, chaired by Sabah CVLB director Norsiah Patah, was attended by representatives of Malaysia Airports Sdn Bhd in Kota Kinabalu, Tawau, Lahad Datu and Sandakan.   On another issue, he said the Sabah CVLB would conduct a thorough study first before allowing city taxi drivers to operate at KKIA.   'Any decision made will take into account the welfare and interests of all parties involved. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 5 — More than 4,800 white-collar crime cases were reported over the past two years involving investment fraud with losses exceeding RM420 million. Bukit Aman Commercial Crime Investigation Department director Datuk Mohd Kamarudin Md Din said online investment fraud increased to 3,195 cases involving losses worth more than RM245 million in 2021 compared to 1,671 cases with losses exceeding RM180 million in 2020. 'A total of 906 individuals were arrested in 2020 while last year saw 1,833 individuals held for investment fraud offences,' he said at a special press conference today. In the meantime, Mohd Kamarudin also advised the public not to fall for investment promotion advertisements on social media such as Facebook, Youtube, WhatsApp and Wechat. 'Please check the investment schemes and companies that offer the investment to see if they are licensed by Bank Negara Malaysia or not,' he said. In addition, the public is advised to verify the account, and phone line first through the website http://ccid.rmp.gov.my/semakmule/ to identify whether the account has been involved in a case of fraud before transacting any payments. He asked the public who have any information regarding online scam syndicates to report to the CCID Scam Response Centre at 03-26101559 or 03-26101599. 

100 MILLION dollars - that was the cost of doing business in the multibillion-dollar 1MDB scam, former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker Tim Leissner testified.  Leissner, 52, the U.S. government's star witness in its case against ex-Goldman banker Roger Ng, provided a description of the payment system Wednesday for a jury in Brooklyn, New York.  Leissner told of a meeting at which Jho Low, the alleged architect of the massive fraud, spelled out who he said needed to be paid off for approval to raise and spend billions of dollars for Malaysia's wealth fund, 1Malaysia Development Bhd.   On the list were officials from Malaysia and Abu Dhabi, Leissner testified, including Malaysia's then-prime minister, Datuk Seri Najib Razak, and Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the deputy prime minister of the United Arab Emirates.   Low 'said the sheikh would not get out of bed for less than $100 million,' Leissner told the jury.  Sheikh Mansour hasn't been accused of wrongdoing by the U.S. The UAE government media office and UAE Foreign Ministry didn't immediately respond to an emailed request for comment.  Leissner's testimony about the alleged payments came in his third day on the stand in the trial of Ng, his former subordinate at the bank and the only Goldman employee to be put on trial for the 1MDB scandal. Billions of dollars were siphoned from funds meant for development in Malaysia. Leissner pleaded guilty in 2018 and his cooperation in the trial may help him get a reduced sentence. Ng has pleaded not guilty to money laundering conspiracy and bribery charges, and his defense lawyers say he warned Goldman officials about doing business with Low.   The trial was interrupted Wednesday by revelations that the government failed to turn over more than 15,500 documents related to Leissner. The judge has said she will pause the trial before defense lawyers begin questioning Leissner, and Ng's attorney has said he may ask for a mistrial.   The meeting Leissner described while on the stand took place at Low's home in the Mayfair section of London in 2012, not long before Goldman greenlighted work on 1MDB and raised $1.75 billion for the fund, Leissner testified. The project couldn't move forward unless 1MDB secured an outside guarantor for the debt it was about to take on, he told the jury. He said Low, who held no official position at 1MDB but exerted outsize influence there, was able to get that guarantee from the sovereign wealth fund of Abu Dhabi and its subsidiaries.  At the meeting, Low took out a piece of paper and 'started drawing boxes,' Leissner told the court. On one side of the page were several boxes for Malaysian officials who needed to be paid off, and on the other were boxes for the Abu Dhabi officials, he said.   Low said that at the top levels, payments to the Malaysia and Abu Dhabi sides of the criminal enterprise 'had to be the same and be perceived to be the same,' Leissner testified.   'In my mind, that meant both sides had to get $100 million,' Leissner testified. 'I can't say I was surprised,' he added, saying years of working in emerging markets had taught him that bribes and kickbacks were sometimes associated with projects involving government officials.  At the end of his presentation, Low said Leissner and Ng would also be 'taken care of,' Leissner testified.   'I was of course happy that I was about to make some additional money,' he told the jurors. 'I wanted to make more money, even though I was well paid at Goldman Sachs.'  Leissner said that after the meeting he and Ng walked back to Leissner's hotel.   'As Roger and I walked, we agreed we would never say anything to anyone at Goldman Sachs or outside Goldman Sachs' about the payments 'other than the participants that were there,' Leissner testified.  'Bribes had to be paid to make it happen,' he said, 'but we always kept it to the two of us.'BLOOMBERG 

JOHOR BARU, Dec 31 ― Johor police have placed 4,309 personnel in a state of readiness for possible flood relief work in the state, which is expected to be hit by continuous rain today. Johor police chief Datuk Ayob Khan Mydin Pitchay said they comprised 415 officers and 3,894 men from the headquarters at the state contingent and all police districts. 'A total of 25 hot spots in Johor have been identified, with the districts of Johor Bahru, Muar and Kota Tinggi having the most locations facing possible floods at four each. We have also readied various assets (for flood operations), including 30 boats, 63 four-wheel drive vehicles, 43 generator sets, 32 vans and 10 tents. 'All these are to ensure the smooth running of any operations which we will conduct with the cooperation of other agencies like the Fire and Rescue Department and Rela,' he told a press conference after the Santai Cycle Persatuan Keluarga Polis (Perkep) Johor programme at the state police headquarters here today. Also present was his wife SAC Datin Zalena Mohd Ariffin, the Johor Perkep chairman. On the Santai Cycle Perkep Johor programme, Ayob Khan said it was participated by more than 300 police personnel, their wives and members of the public. It was aimed at strengthening ties between police and the community, apart from raising funds for Johor Perkep, part of which would be used to help flood victims in various states, he added. He said the Sultan of Johor, Sultan Ibrahim Sultan Iskandar, and Johor Menteri Besar Datuk Hasni Mohammad had made contributions to Johor Perkep. Yesterday, the Tunku Mahkota of Johor, Tunku Ismail Sultan Ibrahim, asked the relevant agencies and district offices in the state to be prepared to swing into action if flooding occurred as forecast. According to a notice issued by the National Flood Warning and Forecast Centre (PRABN) at 11 pm on Thursday, several districts in Johor are expected to be hit by floods this afternoon following forecast of continuous rain. Checks by Bernama at two locations here this morning showed that it had stopped raining in several villages near Sungai Skudai and Sungai Tiram and there was no flooding yet. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Dec 10 — Datuk Seri M. Saravanan said he would ask the prime minister to review the prohibition of chariot processions during Thaipusam in January, after thousands attended the government's 100-day Aspirasi Keluarga Malaysia event here yesterday. The human resources minister and MIC deputy president pointed out that the crowds attended the event that was held indoors at the Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre (KLCC) whereas Thaipusam processions were conducted outdoors. According to a Malaysiakini report, the minister said the Hindu celebration was unfairly targeted with the standard operating procedures (SOPS) governing the event. 'Thousands gathered at the Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre to attend the (Aspirasi Keluarga Malaysia) celebration. 'There was no social distancing, no one-metre, none of this adhered to (at this event), but they are targeting Thaipusam instead. 'I will discuss with the prime minister and ask for an end to this immediately,' Saravanan was quoted as saying. National Unity Minister Datuk Halimah Mohamed Sadique had told the Dewan Rakyat on December 7 that chariot processions remain prohibited due to Covid-19 for next year's Thaipusam. Halimah added that the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for this year's Christmas celebration would be deliberated on December 14. Halimah was replying to an additional question raised by Tebrau MP Steven Choong who had asked about the possibility of holding mass processions, such as the Chingay celebration, which he said would benefit tourism activities. 'Honourable member, in the list of Thaipusam celebration activities, there is also procession, the silver chariot procession. So, in the application for the Thaipusam celebration, the processions are not allowed,' she said. Next year, Thaipusam will fall on January 18. * A previous version of this story contained an error which has since been corrected. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Stateless children should not be deprived of their right to an education. Making the call, Malaysian Human Rights Commission children's commissioner Prof Datuk Noor Aziah Mohd Awal said that special schools ought to be established for such undocumented children. 'I know there are some private schools with only 12 students but with eight teachers. 'And yet we have more children wanting to go to school. This is unbelievable. 'Education is the only way to uplift the underserved communities, which include the stateless children,' she said at a panel discussion on 'Status of Undocumented Persons in Malaysia' at the German ambassador's residence in Jalan Langgak Golf recently. The event, held in conjunction with International Human Rights Day, was moderated by independent broadcast journalist Tehmina Kaoosji. The panellists were Noor Aziah, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Malaysian representative Thomas Albrecht and Family Frontiers president Suri Kempe. German ambassador Dr Peter Blomeyer introduced them to the audience who included ambassadors, social activists and human rights practitioners. The discussion was preceded by a short film screening of 'Aku Mau Skola' (I want to go to school) ,by the young local award filmmaker Putri Purnama Sugua, which highlighted the issues of statelessness and access to education in Sandakan, Sabah.    Noor Aziah hoped the government, particularly the Education Ministry, could pay greater attention to the matter. 'There are many schools around and the government annually approves of a budget for sufficient funds for education. 'Hence, it is ironic to see these children being neglected and not given the opportunity to school. 'I hope our concerns will arouse public interest,' she said. Tehmina highlighted how the Education Ministry reported that 21,316 students quit school between March 2020 and July this year, while Parliament records showed 445 of these resulted in child marriages. She questioned who was in charge of the issue and in ensuring a better future for the affected children, especially considering RM52.6 billion was allocated for education under Budget 2022. 'There's often a perspective that undocumented persons are a drain on sovereign nations resources,' Tehmina said. Albrecht highlighted the great challenge of conveying preventive measures on the Covid-19 pandemic and vaccination initiatives to the undocumented persons or refugees, in different languages and channels. He was also asked on stateless children's healthcare, loss of livelihood, rise of child abuse cases, mental health issues, orphaned children and families pushed into poverty. 'Fortunately, we managed to obtain assistance from the various civil societies and non-governmental organisations. 'We hope to be better equipped to handle such a task,' he said. Suri spoke on the hassle of obtaining citizenship for children born overseas to Malaysian women who married foreign spouses owing to inequalities in Malaysia's citizenship laws. 'The pressure from social media and society plays an important role in affecting the government's decision on amending laws to facilitate the issue. 'I am optimistic on the efforts in fighting for equal rights, to automatically confer citizenship on overseas-born children to Malaysian mothers,' she said. Suri recounted how strong public opinion put pressure on the government to withdraw their appeal on a High Court case involving a Malaysian mother and her child fathered by a foreigner. 'There must be greater pressure from the public opinion for the government to pay attention to the matter, like with the court case that reversed the injustice by granting mothers equal rights as fathers to grant citizenship,' said Suri. The panellists also discussed issues related with the stateless children's healthcare, loss of livelihood, gender discrimination, children's lack of access to education and healthcare, rise of child abuse cases, mental health issues, orphaned children and families pushed into poverty, travel separation from family and partners, the voicelessness of undocumented persons and the media's stilted coverage on the issue. 

PUTRAJAYA: There is no reason for the public to be alarmed with Covid-19 if everyone continues to comply with the  standard operating procedure (SOP) set by the government. National Security Council director-general Datuk Rodzi Md Saad said this also applied to social events such as the 100-Day Aspirasi Keluarga Malaysia (AKM) to be held from tomorrow until Sunday.    He said the lackadaisical attitude among the people contributed to the spread of Covid-19 virus  when  they failed to adhere to the SOP, which included wearing face masks, as well as maintaining physical distancing and good personal hygiene.  He said the government had prepared a stringent SOP for the upcoming (AKM programme, which will be held from Dec 9 to 12.    'Most important is how visitors and organisers will play their roles and be responsible for ensuring SOP compliance at the highest level.   'We are aware of the concerns raised by the public, especially with the spread of the Variant of Concern (VoC), Omicron. However, we are confident of preventing the spread of the virus if the SOP is adhered to,' he told reporters in an interview. The four-day programme will be held at the Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre, with Prime Minister Datuk Seri Ismail Sabri Yaakob expected to launch it tomorrow.  Among the activities lined up are a career carnival, cultural performance, arts appreciation night, entrepreneurship sales, traditional sports, gallery showcasing ministries' achievements and aid programmes.     Rodzi said the number of Covid-19 infections had recently seen a drop, and it could be achieved through, among others, SOP compliance as emphasised by the government.  'Without the SOP, it will be difficult to bring the Covid-19 cases to below 3,000.   'Public awareness is there, they know what to do. However, sometimes, people tend to take (the SOP) for granted and assume that they will not be victims of Covid-19.'  He reminded the public that the virus did not discriminate and that anyone could be infected if they let their guard down.  He also called on everyone to comply with the SOP when participating in any programme.  'If we protect ourselves well enough, we will be able to curb the spread of Covid-19.'  He said the NSC was also prepared for any eventualities during the programme, including immediate intervention should a Covid-19 positive case be detected there.  This includes sanitisation process by the organiser, apart from health experts, police and armed forces personnel who would be monitoring the event and take appropriate steps if necessary.   He said children aged below 12 would be allowed to attend the programme, but they must be accompanied by their parents with the condition that the latter were fully vaccinated.  'Fully vaccinated children aged 13 and above are also allowed to attend the programme.' He said the event would be limited to 10,350 people, about half of the convention centre's capacity.  For instance, only a maximum of 2,000 visitors would be allowed to be on the first floor (Career Carnival) at any given time, despite its full capacity to accommodate up to 6,000 people. He said the entry and exit points would be heavily guarded to ensure that the number of people in the area did not exceed the set limit.  'Level 3 has the full capacity of 2,000 people, but we only allow 750 people to be there at any one time.   'We want to ensure the main condition for the National Recovery Plan's SOP, that is physical distancing, is adhered to.'  He said activities would be held until 10pm daily throughout the period. He also advised those who intended to attend the programme to make prior planning before going for it.  'If there are too many people, please avoid the place and come again another day.' 

KUCHING, Dec 12 — Unit for Other Religions (Unifor) under the Chief Minister's Office has disbursed a total allocation of RM1 million to 41 Borneo Evangelical Mission (BEM) churches in the district of Lawas and Trusan in Limbang. The cheque presentation was held at Kampung Long Segaman, Lawas yesterday, according to Sarawak Public Communication Unit (Ukas) Lawas report. When contacted today Unifor director Richard Lon confirmed the event. 'Yes, 41 cheques totalling RM1 million (were granted to BEM churches). I have handed over 24 cheques yesterday (Friday). The remaining cheques will be handed over within these next few days,' he said. Before handing over the grant to several BEM church representatives, Lon explained that Unifor is not only a platform to recommend policies involving racial and religious harmony in Sarawak but also for assessing applications for fund and land for the building of houses of worship. 'Thus far, Unifor had recieved grants totalling RM150 million but the total sum applied for amounted to RM500 million. Nevertheless these applications will be given appropriate consideration but they are also dependent on priorities. However no application will be put aside,' he was quoted as saying by Ukas Lawas. Lon also took time to visit several houses of worship in both districts including the Tua Pek Kong in Trusan, Ukas Lawas added. 

KOTA KINABALU, Feb 9 ― Three more education clusters were recorded in Sabah today, namely in Beluran, Keningau and Kinabatangan, said state Minister of Housing and Local Government Datuk Masidi Manjun. He said in a statement today that the Access Menawo cluster in the Keningau district involved a female student from the Institut Pelajaran dan Dakwah Islam Sabah (IPDAS) hostel, with the 21-year-old index case first showing symptoms on February 6 before testing positive on the same day. Close contact tracing at the hostel found 11 more positive cases, taking the cumulative total to 12 people. In Beluran, the Simpangan Paitan cluster was detected at Sekolah Menengah Kebangsaan (SMK) Simpangan Paitan when the index case, a female student, staying at the hostel had a bout of flu, cough and sore throat since February 4 and tested positive two days later, with 22 more cases detected through close contact tracing. The Bukit Garam cluster in Kinabatangan involved an 18-year-old female student of SMK Bukit Garam, who began having symptoms on January 28 and tested positive at the Kinabatangan Hospital on February 6, with 46 more cases from among the school students and staff also detected through close contact tracing. Masidi said all three index cases from the three clusters were in categories one and two and had been isolatated for treatment. Sabah today recorded a total of 3,333 daily Covid-19 cases to take the cumulative number of infections to 259,932 while two fatalities were reported ― one each in Papar and Tuaran. 

KUANTAN, Dec 25 — The Pahang government has agreed to maintain the remission in the quit rent rates for next year much like in 2020 and 2021, said Mentri Besar Datuk Seri Wan Rosdy Wan Ismail. In a statement here today, he said the decision was made at the recent State Executive Council meeting and hoped that it would help ease the burden of landowners in Pahang, especially those affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision is also expected to provide sufficient room to all landowners in the state to pay the quit rent, he said. 

SHAH ALAM, Jan 8 — Selangor Mentri Besar Datuk Seri Amirudin Shari said today that the state government will hold a retreat in February to discuss what can be done to mitigate floods in the state, to avoid the December flood emergency from reoccurring. Amirudin said that the state will look at all the suggestions it has received, and that the meet will include Selangor Infrastructure and Agriculture Committee chairman Izham Hashim. 'We will look at the full picture and the entire framework of flood mitigation. It will not be just a piecemeal solution, but a long-term solution, especially for hotspots like Taman Sri Muda,' he said this morning while attending the Post Flood Mega Cleaning Programme at Taman Sri Muda in Shah Alam today. 'Some people say (build a) city (water) channel, some people say Smart Tunnel (Stormwater Management And Road Tunnel), some say river dredging. All these aspects we will see and we will present, God willing, as soon as possible after the evaluation. 'And based on my discussions with the federal government, the cost is very high, the cost is maybe RM1 billion,' he added. Last month, Selangor was ravaged by floods, along with several other states in the peninsula. The natural disaster was one of the worst ever recorded in the nation's history. To date, 48 people have died, with thousands displaced from their homes. Post-flood clean-up operations are underway in most areas where flood waters have receded. Yesterday, Amirudin announced that the state government approved an immediate allocation of over RM40 million to rehabilitate and reinforce rivers, slopes as well as road embankments affected by the floods. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Dec 2 — Warning of disruptions to clinic and hospital schedules, infectious diseases expert Professor Datuk Dr Adeeba Kamarulzaman questioned the last minute decision to declare a public holiday in Kuala Lumpur just because the city's football club beat Johor for the Malaysia Cup. The former dean of Universiti Malaya's medicine faculty pointed out the Covid-19 crisis had already messed up the schedule for many health appointments, including surgery, but making tomorrow a public holiday would only exacerbate the situation as doctors were to sit for their specialist exams. 'Wow is this truly necessary? It's thrown our specialist professional exams, clinics and operating theatre schedule all helter skelter. 'IMHO we really don't need this, especially not at a time when we have so much catching up to do as a result of Covid-19,' she posted on her Twitter account last night, and attaching a news report of Federal Territories Minister Datuk Seri Shahidan Kassim declaring December 3 a public holiday following Kuala Lumpur City FC's victory over Johor Darul Ta'zim FC in Malaysia Cup final two days ago.   Wow is this truly necessary? It's thrown our specialist professional exams, clinics and operating theatre schedule all helter skelter. IMHO we really don't need this, especially not at a time when we have so much catching up to do as a result of COVD-19. https://t.co/vZYoNusj8G   In a separate statement, Bangi MP Ong Kian Ming said that the public holiday announcement was irresponsible, socially and economically disruptive. He said the unexpected holiday declaration will cost many companies millions of ringgit in unplanned lost output as Kuala Lumpur, being the national capital, is the country's centre of the services sector. 'Some companies may have to pay unplanned extra overtime to ensure that some of their core services remain up and running during this public holiday. 'A back of the envelope calculation shows that this unplanned holiday may result in as much as RM400 million in lost output, something which the country cannot afford while we are recovering from the Covid-19 pandemic,' he said. Ong said that the public holiday might also cause trouble for parents who live in Kuala Lumpur and send their kids to school in Kuala Lumpur but work in Selangor. 'They would have to make sudden childcare arrangements for their kids who do not have to go to school,' he added. Shahidan announced the public holiday for all the federal territories, which also include Putrajaya and Labuan. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Feb 3 — Egypt and Malaysia have agreed on the importance of pushing forward their bilateral relations and opening new horizons for joint cooperation at all levels. This was agreed upon at the recent Bilateral Political Consultations between the two countries held in Cairo on January 30. The inputs of the meeting were made available to Bernama by Egypt's embassy in Malaysia. 'The consultations witnessed comprehensive discussions between Egypt and Malaysia in all fields of joint cooperation at the political, educational, cultural, economic and commercial levels, along with reviewing the two countries' stances on various regional and international issues of common interest,' the embassy said. The Bilateral Consultations was the first to be held between the two countries − representing a significant step in boosting Cairo-Kuala Lumpur relations. Egypt's delegation was led by Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs for Asian Affairs Ambassador Ayman Kamel while Malaysia's delegation was led by Foreign Ministry's Secretary-General Tan Sri M. Shahrul Ikram Yaakob 

KOTA BARU: The water level at the Golok river in Rantau Panjang recorded a slight drop this morning compared to yesterday after the rain eased up. According to the state welfare flood portal, the water level was at 8.22m which is 0.22m above its warning level at 7.15am today compared to 8.61m yesterday. Other major rivers in the state remained below their alert marks. The flood situation in the state continues to improve this morning after lesser rain hit the state since yesterday. However, several low-lying areas remained flooded especially those in Pasir Mas and Rantau Panjang. These included Kampung Terusan, Kampung Tok Deh, Kampung Lubok Gong and Kampung Lanchang. A total 33 flood victims from six families were evacuated yesterday after their homes were inundated by floodwaters. They are currently taking shelter at the SK Tok Deh flood relief centre, near Rantau Panjang. 

SHAH ALAM, Dec 27 — Selangor Mentri Besar Datuk Seri Amirudin Shari informed today that the floods in Hulu Langat had been caused by a water surge from the surrounding mountains. Speaking during a special press conference held today, Amirudin said the surge also carried piles of rubbish and timber up till Batu 14, Sungai Lui and its surrounding areas. He also said he had not yet received any information suggesting that the construction of the East Klang Valley Expressway (EKVE) was believed to be among the factors which caused floods in the Hulu Langat area, as reported by the media yesterday. In a similar development, Amirudin confirmed that construction works involving a highway project in Kampung Asahan, Kuala Selangor, near here had cut through an embankment in the village, and caused water to overflow. 'That is why there was an overflow of water in Kampung Asahan, and since yesterday, a lot of water had been successfully removed from the area. InsyaAllah, there will be a significant reduction in the water level,' he said. 

GEORGE TOWN: The Penang Island City Council (MBPP) has instructed the engineering consultant of the recently-opened Bukit Kukus paired road (Tun Sardon Link) to find a solution to the water retention issue there on Saturday. Expressing disappointment over the incident, the MBPP said it should not have had happened at all. While initial investigations pointed to rubbish and dried leaves which had blocked the water flow into the drainage system as the cause of the incident, MBPP has ordered the engineering consultant of the project to resolve the issue. 'We have asked the engineering consultant of the project to submit a detailed explanation on the incident. 'At the same time, we have invited experts from The Institution of Engineers, Malaysia (IEM) (Penang branch) to work together with the MBPP and the engineering consultant to identify the main cause of the incident as well as to provide advice in terms of the technical aspects,' it said today. Earlier today, MBPP Mayor Datuk Yew Tung Seang, MBPP secretary A. Rajendran, IEM (Penang branch) chairman Bernard Lim and other representatives as well as the contractor visited the site before a discussion was held to come up with a long-term solution. Besides that, MBPP said it would also conduct periodic patrols and monitoring through the closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras at the MBPP's Intelligent Centre. Meanwhile, MBPP also warned that stern action would be taken against motorists who stop their vehicles by the side of the road as well as those who throw rubbish out of their vehicles on the paired road. 'We hope the people will work together in ensuring the cleanliness and safety of the area,' it added. Yesterday, the New Straits Times reported that rubbish and dried leaves had been identified as the cause of water retention on the tail-end of the recently-opened Bukit Kukus paired road, touted as the country's highest elevated highway, on Saturday. A 10-second video footage of the water retention after heavy rain, which affected traffic flow, had gone viral soon after.  Late last month, the NST reported that MBPP had expressed disappointment over the attitude of some motorists, who without shame, simply throw their garbage out of their cars along the newly-launched road. It also expressed disappointment over the selfish attitude of some motorists, who stopped their vehicles along the road for selfies, without considering the safety of others and later left their garbage behind. This came after photos of garbage, including plastic bags filled with drinks and food wrappers, made their rounds on social media, forcing MBPP workers to clean up the mess left behind by the litterbugs. 

MUAR, Feb 4 — Angkatan Bersatu Anak Muda (Armada) has proposed that 30 per cent of the Perikatan Nasional (PN) candidates for the Johor state election be from among the young. Armada chief Wan Ahmad Fayhsal Wan Ahmad Kamal said the 30 per cent comprising 17 seats out of the 56 seats, was the best strategy to attract votes from young people. 'For Armada alone, we are proposing five seats but it depends on the decision of the top leadership of all parties. 'Armada is part of PN youth component so the young candidates are not necessarily from Armada only, maybe from PAS and Gerakan Youth as well as any of the allied wings,' he told reporters after chairing the central and Johor Armada divisions meeting at Pagoh Bersatu office here today. Wan Ahmad Fayhsal said the candidates nominated by Armada derived from community youth leaders who have extensive experience in serving and understanding the problems faced by the people in their area. Central Armada has received proposals from Armada divisions throughout Johor for consideration by Bersatu's Political Bureau, he said. Meanwhile, Wan Ahmad Fayhsal said the Bersatu youth wing would focus on three main issues namely employability, education and environmental sustainability. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Feb 7 — Should Bersatu president Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin decide to not defend his Gambir seat at the upcoming Johor state elections, it could prove to be a blessing in disguise for both him and his party, political analysts said.  By not contesting, Muhyiddin would be prolonging the lifeline of his party and his political career, said Universiti Malaysia associate professor Awang Azman Awang Pawi.  'Muhyiddin is not standing because he likely knows that he won his seat in Gambir (during the 14th general election) due to the support of Chinese constituents. 'But now, many Chinese constituents are angry with him. This is the result of Bersatu overthrowing Pakatan Harapan (PH) in 2020, which has led to their rejection of Bersatu.  'So, it is difficult for Bersatu to win Gambir,' Awang Azman told Malay Mail when contacted.  On January 25, Muhyiddin had reportedly said he may not defend the Gambir seat in the upcoming Johor state election.  The former prime minister reasoned that this would allow him to pay more attention to issues at the parliamentary and federal levels, as well as to party matters.  'I may not contest but this is up to the (collective) leadership. I want to pave the way for many more personalities in Johor, especially for this seat, but it is up to them as to who gets to contest there. We will decide,' he was quoted as saying at the time.  At the same time, Awang Azman said Muhyiddin knows he could face Umno in Gambir, which has far more supporters in the area, and this does not even include PH candidates.  'If he contests and loses, it may result in Bersatu's presence disappearing from the national political radar. 'Even his reputation as party president, former prime minister and former Johor mentri besar could also be severely affected. 'So, the best move is to not contest and this will benefit Bersatu in turn, saving face and his political reputation as party president,' said Awang Azaman. Stating a similar view, Perdana Centre, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia senior lecturer Mazlan Ali said Muhyiddin's decision not to contest was due to the realisation that Perikatan Nasional (PN) is an underdog coalition.  'He also knows that there would likely be a three-cornered contest and there would be a low chance for an underdog coalition to win the state polls.  'But his decision could change now that PAS has said it will work with PN. We will have to wait and see,' said Mazlan when contacted.  He also noted that Muhyiddin's victory in 2018 was largely dependent on non-Malay voters who supported PH.  Mazlan added this could also be a strategy by Umno, whereby it is seeking to create a wave of rejection towards Muhyiddin.  'It could be a strategy that Umno is employing to make it look as though there is a rejection of Muhyiddin in Gambir.  'That is the situation I observe at the moment,' said Mazlan.  In GE14, Muhyiddin won the Gambir seat with a 3,088-vote majority over Barisan Nasional's Datuk M. Asojan and PAS' Mahfodz Mohamed. According to a source close to PH, support for Muhyiddin on the ground seems 'shaky' as the loyalty of the majority still rests with former mentri besar Datuk Osman Sapian, despite his death in December.  'It is a mixed reaction on the ground now. Bersatu's supporters are still standing on Osman Sapian's side.  'We have also been contacted by Osman Sapian's officers.  'We will have to wait and see,' said the source.  When asked if PH would try to defend the Gambir seat, the source said it would be an uphill battle for the coalition as its new electorate will include Undi18 voters.  'If it were a straight fight between PH, PN or BN, PH would have a higher chance of retaining the seat because the Chinese constituents are still on PH's side.  'But with the Undi18 voters in the picture now, the playing field is levelled.  'The Undi18 voters are a new batch of voters, in that no one can say that they have championed this category of voters,' said the source.  The source added that this will be the first time that any election will see Undi18 voters casting their votes.  The Johor state election was triggered two weeks ago after caretaker Mentri Besar Datuk Seri Hasni Mohammad from Umno sought the dissolution of the state assembly despite still holding a one-seat majority, following the death of Osman who was the Bersatu assemblyman for Kempas. The Election Commission is scheduled to meet this Wednesday to decide the nomination and polling dates for Johor. 

KUCHING: Candidates contesting in the Sarawak state election have started arriving at nomination centres around the state to submit their nomination papers.  Among the earliest to arrive was Sarawak United People's Party (SUPP) president Datuk Seri Dr Sim Kui Hian.  Dr Sim is Gabungan Parti Sarawak's (GPS) candidate who is defending the Batu Kawah state seat.  He arrived at the Padawan Municipal Council which is the nomination centre for the Batu Kawah state seat at 7.30am.  DAP candidate for the Batu Kawah seat, Dr Kelvin Yii arrived at the nomination centre at 8.20am.  Fadhil Mohamad Isa, who is contesting as an independent for the Dudong state seat, arrived at the compound of the Sibujaya public library in Sibu at 8.03am.  He was accompanied by proposer Annuar Hamdi and seconder Nur Suraya Abdullah.  The son of the late Tan Sri Adenan Satem, Azizul Annuar arrived at the Lundu Community Hall in Lundu at 8.10am.  He is GPS' candidate for Tanjong Datu, a seat held by his mother Puan Sri Jamilah Anu during the previous term, following Adenan's passing. 

SHAH ALAM, Dec 1 — A total of 1,076 child abuse cases were reported in the state from January to September this year, the Selangor state legislative assembly was told today. State Public Health, Unity, and Women and Family Development Committee chairman, Dr Siti Mariah Mahmud said based on statistics from the Selangor police, this number included cases of physical abuse (527 cases), emotional abuse (35) and sexual abuse or harassment (514), without specifying cases involving paedophiles. She was responding to Juwairiya Zulkifli (PH-Bukit Melawati) who asked on the number of paedophilia cases recorded in the state, at the state legislative assembly sitting, here, today. 'To help prevent and reduce abuse cases involving children, including cases of paedophilia, the Selangor Social Welfare Department has 11 child protection teams (PPKK) in each district, with the role of supporting the group protection services at the community level,' she added. Dr Siti Mariah said the PPKK was also responsible for coordinating activities at 17 Children's Activity Centres (PAKK) in each district according to the needs of the local community. "The PAKK in each district can function as centres for recreation, advocacy, resources, learning, crisis intervention, sports and leisure, as well as for other activities that are appropriate. 'This effort is to help prevent child abuse and neglect, skipping school and other social problems," she said. 

SEMATAN (Sarawak), Dec 11 — Langkawi has received a total of 204,953 domestic tourists from September 16 to November 30, with total tourism revenue of more than RM211 million under the travel bubble initiative, said Tourism, Arts and Culture Minister Datuk Seri Nancy Shukri.Satisfied with the development of the country's famous holiday island tourism industry, Nancy said tourism industry players should continue to seize opportunities to generate revenue following the long effect of the Covid-19 pandemic.She also urged domestic tourism industry players to be ready to seize the opportunity with the influx of international tourists even though the number is still small due to concerns over the spread of the new Covid-19 variant of Omicron.She said that the travel bubble in selected destinations in the country could not meet the demand of the tourism sector but it should target the reopening of the international tourism sector in stages when the country's borders were opened later.She said this to reporters after officiating the Voluntourism: Greening Malaysia programme at Pantai Telok Melano here today.She added that Pantai Telok Melano in the Tanjong Datu has the potential to be developed as an ecotourism destination in Sarawak.Nancy, who was accompanied by the Gabungan Parti Sarawak (GPS) candidate for the Tanjong Datu seat in the 12th Sarawak State Election, Azizul Annuar Adenan, also proposed for the festival to be held in the constituency in efforts to increase the number of tourist arrivals, thus generating income for the people.'Teluk Melano Bay is one of the tourist destinations in the southern part of Sarawak, at the state's border. So there is a lot of history, products that we can highlight such as handicrafts,' she said.Expressing her confidence in Azizul Annuar's credibility to win the seat, Nancy said the son of fifth Sarawak Chief Minister Tan Sri Adenan Satem has the criteria to be elected as a people's representative and becoming a GPS leader in the future.  SEMATAN (Sarawak), Dec 11 — Langkawi has received a total of 204,953 domestic tourists from September 16 to November 30, with total tourism revenue of more than RM211 million under the travel bubble initiative, said Tourism, Arts and Culture Minister Datuk Seri Nancy Shukri. Satisfied with the development of the country's famous holiday island tourism industry, Nancy said tourism industry players should continue to seize opportunities to generate revenue following the long effect of the Covid-19 pandemic. She also urged domestic tourism industry players to be ready to seize the opportunity with the influx of international tourists even though the number is still small due to concerns over the spread of the new Covid-19 variant of Omicron. She said that the travel bubble in selected destinations in the country could not meet the demand of the tourism sector but it should target the reopening of the international tourism sector in stages when the country's borders were opened later. She said this to reporters after officiating the Voluntourism: Greening Malaysia programme at Pantai Telok Melano here today. She added that Pantai Telok Melano in the Tanjong Datu has the potential to be developed as an ecotourism destination in Sarawak. Nancy, who was accompanied by the Gabungan Parti Sarawak (GPS) candidate for the Tanjong Datu seat in the 12th Sarawak State Election, Azizul Annuar Adenan, also proposed for the festival to be held in the constituency in efforts to increase the number of tourist arrivals, thus generating income for the people. 'Teluk Melano Bay is one of the tourist destinations in the southern part of Sarawak, at the state's border. So there is a lot of history, products that we can highlight such as handicrafts,' she said. Expressing her confidence in Azizul Annuar's credibility to win the seat, Nancy said the son of fifth Sarawak Chief Minister Tan Sri Adenan Satem has the criteria to be elected as a people's representative and becoming a GPS leader in the future. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Feb 11 ― Celcom Axiata, Maxis and Digi Telecommunications have accepted the offer from the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) for spectrum assignment. The effective period for the spectrum assignment commences July 1 for a period of five years with a one-time fee of RM11.76 million to be paid by 12 noon, February 14 and an annual fee component fixed at RM20.76 million payable before December 15 each year throughout the validity of the spectrum assignment. In a filing with Bursa Malaysia, Axiata Group Bhd said its wholly-owned subsidiary, Celcom Axiata Bhd, has accepted the offer for spectrum assignment in the 2530MHz to 2540MHz paired with 2650MHz to 2660MHz frequency bands. In a separate filing, Digi.com Bhd said its wholly-owned subsidiary, Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd, has accepted the offer from MCMC, granting Digi Telecommunications the issuance of its 2600MHz spectrum assignment at 2x10MHz band. Meanwhile, in another filing, Maxis Bhd said its relevant wholly-owned subsidiary has also accepted the offer for the spectrum assignment of 2x10MHz of 2600MHz. Axiata and Digi.com said Celcom Axiata and Digi Telecommunications have paid MCMC the one-time price component fee of RM11.76 million in one lump sum. 

MALAYSIA's palm oil sector has set a new record recently when the price of crude palm oil (CPO) hit an all-time high of RM6,158 a tonne on Feb 21. Market analysts described the surge in palm oil prices as 'a super cycle supported by favourable factors amid supply constraints in the global oils and fats market'. The spike in the price of the CPO was further supported by the palm oil industry's performance data for last month released by the Malaysian Palm Oil Board (MPOB) which saw a decrease of 13.54 per cent in CPO production compared to that of December last year due to shortage of labour for harvesting of fresh fruit bunches. Lower palm oil stockpile in January this year at 1.55 million tonnes, a reduction of 3.85 per cent from 1.61 million tonnes in December last year also supported the price of the CPO. Oil palm growers should take the opportunity to invest their gains in technologies which can assist workers especially in harvesting and collecting the fresh fruit bunches in the plantations. Plantation companies must be creative in using technology to bolster their operations in the plantations such as harvesting, collecting and transporting the fresh fruit bunches to the mills efficiently in order to reduce dependency on labours. MPOB has to date developed 47 types of machineries for use in the plantations which include technologies for harvesting, collecting loose fruit and in-field transportation which can improve worker productivity and plantation operation efficiency. Meanwhile, the government together with the industry has set up the Mechanisation and Automation Research Consortium of Oil Palm (Marcop) in line with the 12th Malaysia Plan which has set a national development roadmap that includes reducing the recruitment of low-skilled foreign workers.  The government has also outlined a number of measures to create more high-skilled employment opportunities including encouraging the industry to move towards automation and mechanisation. As a government-industry platform, Marcop adopts mechanisation and automation technologies whereby it explores, screens, designs and implements solutions to improve the productivity of the Malaysian oil palm plantation industry and reduce dependency on human labour. Marcop expedites the palm oil industry's efforts in producing cost-effective harvesting systems with focus on artificial intelligence related technologies which are suitable in the emerging IR 4.0. The consortium invites workable proposals for research and development projects in oil palm harvesting technology. While investing in technology, oil palm growers should find ways to attract locals to work in the oil palm plantations. The Ministry of Plantation Industries and Commodities has emphasised the importance of human capital development in the agricommodity sector. This includes a training programme for youth on mechanisation to attract locals to the plantation. Through the Institute of Malaysian Plantation and Commodities, MPOB organises courses in mechanisation and has so far trained more than 2,300 youths in plantation mechanisation skills to meet the need of the palm oil sector.  The adoption of mechanisation and automation and attractive working conditions in the plantations will attract locals to the plantations. The locals shun employment in the plantations which they perceive as a 4D (dangerous, dirty, difficult and demeaning) sector. The government has also approved 32,000 foreign workers to be brought into the country in stages to ease the problem of labour shortage in the plantations. MPIC and its agencies are also aggressively developing new markets for the palm oil.  The ministry has organised two trade missions this month led by the minister, in the Middle East and Asian markets particularly in India and Bangladesh to strengthen the Malaysian palm oil market. * The writer is the director-general of Malaysian Palm Oil Board 

KUALA LUMPUR, Feb 17 ― Bursa Malaysia ended the morning trading session higher today, boosted by continuous buying interest in plantation stocks, despite volatile regional markets, a dealer said. At 12.30pm, the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBM KLCI) rose 3.39 points to 1,606.59 from 1,603.20 at yesterday's close. The index opened 6.72 points higher at 1,609.92, and moved between 1,604.60 and 1,614.82 throughout the session. Market breadth was positive with gainers leading losers 436 to 414, while 411 counters were unchanged, 977 untraded and 11 others suspended. Turnover stood at 2.29 billion units worth RM1.72 billion. Rakuten Trade Sdn Bhd vice-president of Equity Research, Thong Pak Leng said the market undertone seems strong as the local bourse remained above the 1,600 level. 'We reckon the index to chart higher as buying by foreign funds is expected to resume. 'For today, we believe the index would hover within the 1,600-1,610 range, although we anticipate some mild correction soon,' he said. Among the heavyweights, Sime Darby Plantation advanced 19 sen to RM4.83, KL Kepong improved RM1.18 to RM26.78, IHH Healthcare put on six sen to RM6.64, TM gained 11 sen to RM5.59 and Sime Darby added five sen to RM2.31. As for the actives, Vortex Consolidated rose one sen to eight sen, Dagang NeXchange lost two sen to RM1.25, while SMTrack gained half-a-sen to 23 sen. On the index board, FBM ACE improved 58.14 points to 6,334.20, FBM 70 put on 10.04 points to 13,767.41, FBM Emas Index bagged 25.44 points to 11,467.38, FBMT 100 Index advanced 20.18 points to 11,148.38, and FBM Emas Shariah Index rose 38.09 points to 12,208.19. Sector-wise, the Financial Services Index dropped 22.63 points to 16,474.75, the Industrial Products and Services Index was 1.06 points lower at 211.74, and the Plantation Index climbed 242.84 points to 7,914.88. 

KUALA LUMPUR: CEKD Bhd's shares have been oversubscribed by 131.61 times ahead of the company's initial public offering (IPO) on Bursa Malaysia Securities Bhd's ACE Market. The die-cutting solutions provider is raising RM24.28 million from the IPO exercise. 'We are extremely grateful for the strong confidence our investors have in CEKD, our business, prospects and future plans.  'Our hard work to build a sustainable business has paid off,' CEKD managing director Yap Kai Ning said in a statement today. From the proceeds, the company will use RM8.8 million for the acquisition of a factory for its wholly-owned subsidiary, Hotstar (M) Sdn Bhd, RM3.0 million for the purchase of new machinery, and RM1.3 million for upgrade and development of computer software and server. Besides that, the company will allocate RM4 million for repayment of bank borrowings, with the remainder to be used for marketing activities, general working capital and listing expenses. 'This is just the beginning of our corporate journey. The expansion plan will give a push to the growth of the group's business. 'This is also part of the strategy to increase automation and capacity to meet the demand of our new and existing clients,' said Yap. For this IPO, a total of 18,884 applications for 1,29 billion new shares with a value of RM619.29 million were received from the Malaysian public, which represents an overall oversubscription rate of 131.61 times. M&A Securities Sdn Bhd is the adviser, sponsor, underwriter and placement agent for this IPO exercise. CEKD's listing on the ACE Market of Bursa Securities is scheduled for September 29, 2021. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Oct 1 — Bursa Malaysia remained lower at mid-afternoon today on persistent selling of selected heavyweight counters, mirroring the weaker sentiment in regional equity markets, dealers said. At 3pm, the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBM KLCI) shed 10.51 points to 1,527.29 from Thursday's close of 1,537.80.    Market breadth was negative with decliners surpassing gainers 700 to 230, while 369 counters were unchanged, 945 untraded, and seven others suspended. Turnover stood at 2.46 billion units worth RM1.54 billion. A dealer said Asian markets traded lower on Friday, tracking the weaker performance overnight on Wall Street, which recorded the worst monthly loss in September since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic. Back home, Maybank was flat at RM8.05, Public Bank and TNB declined 3.0 sen each to RM4.04 and RM9.65, respectively, Petronas Chemical went down 2.0 sen to RM8.68 and IHH Healthcare slipped 4.0 sen to RM6.66. Of the actives, Sapura Energy and Serba Dinamik went down 1.0 sen each to 10.5 sen and 31 sen, respectively, KNM fell 1.5 sen to 21.5 sen while DNex shed 2.5 sen to 75.5 sen. On the index board, the FBM Emas Index lost 73.69 points to 11,237.39, the FBMT 100 Index was 73.11 points weaker at 10,924.91 and the FBM Emas Shariah Index decreased 92.64 points to 12,266.37.   The FBM 70 dropped 91.60 points to 14,889.16 and the FBM ACE declined 97.91 points to 7,060.99. Sector-wise, the Plantation Index advanced 20.50 points to 6,373.58 while the Industrial Products and Services Index eased 1.47 points to 202.76 and the Financial Services Index fell 58.60 points to 15,148.75. 

KUALA LUMPUR: The ringgit retreated from this morning's gains to close weaker against the US dollar today as a growing expectation for the US Federal Reserve (US Fed) to begin tapering asset purchases shifted investor interest towards the greenback, dealers said. At 6 pm, the local note was traded lower at 4.1615/1640 against the US dollar, compared with 4.1490/1515 at yesterday's closing. Many analysts have expressed concerns that the CPI data hike would lead to a quicker tapering of asset purchases by the US Fed. Citing Goldman Sachs' statement issued on Monday, ActivTrades trader Dyogenes Rodrigues Diniz said the investment bank saw a 70 per cent chance that the Fed would announce the tapering process at the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting in November. 'Investors have already anticipated the possible tapering process and this has caused the dollar to appreciate against the ringgit,' he said.  Meanwhile, the local note was also traded lower against a basket of major currencies at the close. It ended slightly lower against the euro at 4.9164/9193 from 4.8921/8950 at Monday's close and depreciated against the Japanese yen to 3.7811/7834 from 3.7681/7703 previously. The ringgit also eased against the Singapore dollar at 3.0987/1008  from 3.0903/0926 yesterday and weakened against the British pound at 5.7687/7721 from 5.7356/7390 previously. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Sunway University, Sunway Innovation Labs (Sunway iLabs) and Daikin Refrigeration Malaysia Sdn Bhd have today announced that their pilot trial of graphene-based nano-fluid in industrial chillers has reduced daily energy consumption. Sunway University said the chiller had reduced daily energy consumption by up to 10 per cent (kwH) consistently over a trial period of one-month.  'The nano-fluid results in almost 40 per cent faster heat transfer, i.e., transferring the same amount of heat in a much shorter time.  'Resultantly, the chiller consumes less energy as it reaches the setpoint temperature faster,' it said. Chillers are one of the largest electricity consumers in a building and could consume up to 40 per cent of a building's total energy use in commercial and industrial buildings. The university said the proprietary heat transfer nanofluid which improved energy efficiency in industrial applications was developed by Sunway University's Graphene and Advanced 2D Materials Research Group (GAMRG). 'The new graphene-based nano-fluid has better cooling performance, lower electricity consumption, extends life of heating, ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC) equipment while keeping maintenance costs down, and above all, lowers the carbon footprint,' it said.  Sunway University head of GAMRG and principal researcher of the project Professor Mohammad Khalid said air conditioners use refrigerants and consume large amounts of electricity, resulting in gaseous emissions that contribute to global warming and ozone layer depletion.  'Our graphene-based invention is an energy-efficient heat transfer nanofluid that has been proven effective in both the laboratory and real life.  'It is cost-effective, environmentally-friendly, and safe to be used in industry chillers,' said Mohammad Khalid.  Sunway iLabs foundry head Karen Lau said it aimed to complete the validation trial which would ensure reproducibility by the first quarter of 2022.  'We welcome collaboration with partners, especially manufacturers and real estate managers, who would like to work with to commercialise the graphene-based nano-coolants.  'This includes companies who would like to adopt this technology to improve their energy utilisation and to move a step closer to becoming a carbon-neutral organisation,' she said. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Sept 8 — Malaysia is doing its best to reduce the backlog of orders in the semiconductor industry due to the disruption of operations in the past 12 months, following the imposition of lockdowns to curb the Covid-19 pandemic. The lockdowns saw many factories in Malaysia and other countries suspending their operations or operating in limited capacities. The shortages — mainly involving integrated circuits (ICs) components — were also compounded by developments around the world over time that had restricted supply flows. This includes fire and drought incidents involving fabrication factories in Japan, the United States and Taiwan, as well as the Suez Canal incident in March this year when container ship Ever Given was horizontally wedged and obstructed the traffic flow at one of the busiest trade routes in the world for almost a week. Critical to improve capacity Malaysia Semiconductor Industry Association (MSIA) president Datuk Seri Wong Siew Hai said as Malaysia plays a significant role in the global semiconductor supply chain, it is critical to expand the sector's capacity in light of the severe global shortage of ICs. He noted that the government has allowed factories to resume operations at 100 per cent capacity after 80 per cent of the employees have been fully vaccinated, which helped to ease some of the pressure in meeting customers' orders. 'We thank the government for understanding that electric and electronics (E&E) is one of the essential service sectors, and with the latest announcement, we are working around the clock to ship as many products as possible. 'We also see more companies getting their employees vaccinated, and based on our survey, some companies are investing more and hiring more workers to boost their productivity as orders are quite high,' he told Bernama. According to the survey, 16 companies said they would invest over RM4 billion in capital expenditure over the next two years, expand their built-up area by 3.4 million square feet, and create about 4,600 new jobs. Meanwhile, industry research revealed that global demand for ICs is projected to increase by 20 per cent this year and a further 10 per cent in 2022. Shortage trend to remain in 2022 Meanwhile, Malaysian Pacific Industries Bhd (MPI) group managing director Manuel Zarauza said the company expects the semiconductor shortage trend to persist going into 2022, as strong demand continues to put pressure on global supply chains. He noted that the chip industry continues to be hampered by the fallout from the Covid-19 pandemic. He said according to the Semiconductor Industry Association, companies in the semiconductor industry recorded an average growth of 8.3 per cent quarter-on-quarter in the second quarter of this year (Q2 2021), and 29.2 per cent year-on-year (y-o-y). 'The high double digit increase y-o-y is because there was a big slump in Q2 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic,' he noted. As for MPI, he said despite external challenges, the company foresees strong performance in the quarters ahead, driven by demand following continuous growth across segments such as automotive, 5G network deployment, data centres and Internet of Things. 'The MPI is not facing a major chip shortage right now, as our suppliers have prioritised MPI due to our long-standing association of over 20 years. 'Having said that, if the chip shortage continues over a long period of time, the entire industry will be impacted,' he added. Malaysia is one of the top ten countries in the semiconductor industry, accounting for about seven per cent of the global semiconductor trade and about 13 per cent of the global capacity in terms of back-end assembly test and packaging. The Global Outsourced Semiconductor Assembly and Test market has been projected to grow from US$32.5 billion (US$1=RM4.15) in 2020 to US$45.2 billion by 2026, at a compound annual growth rate of over 5.7 per cent. Malaysia's semiconductor industry involves many sectors, including electronic manufacturing services, automation, precision and engineering, as well as medical devices which uses electronics and global positioning system. The industry contributes 6.8 per cent to the national gross domestic product (GDP) with over 575,000 employees 

KUALA LUMPUR: Paywatch Global Pte Ltd, an earned wage access (EWA) service provider, has raised RM21.9 million in a seed funding round led by US venture capital firm Third Prime and prominent family offices in Singapore and Hong Kong. Operating in Malaysia, South Korea, and Hong Kong, the company plans to use the fresh funds to grow its presence in existing markets further and accelerate expansion efforts into new Southeast Asian markets, including Indonesia and the Philippines. 'Paywatch aims to promote financial inclusion by helping workers achieve financial security and gain financial access to major banks. 'For companies, our flexible payroll system has made them more competitive in attracting talent and increased retention in the face of the 'great resignation'' Paywatch founder and chief executive officer Richard Kim said in a recent statement. Apart from Third Prime, SparkLabs, Won & Partners, and CTK Investments also participated in this seed financing round. With this seed financing, Paywatch welcomes Third Prime as a new partner. 'The team at Third Prime has an exemplary record of actively helping emerging fintech companies to scale and drive value for end-users,' said Paywatch co-founder and president Alex Kim. 'We are excited to leverage their experience and expertise at this time of rapid growth for Paywatch,' he said. Paywatch is the only EWA service provider in Asia that works with top banks - such as Hong Leong Bank Bhd in Malaysia and Hana Bank in South Korea - to provide workers access to their earned wages, in real-time, before pay day. In Malaysia, Paywatch has been recognised by the UN Capital Development Fund, Bank Negara Malaysia and Malaysia Digital Economy Corporation (MDEC) for its financial inclusion initiatives. In addition to providing liquidity to the workforce, Paywatch also serves as a bridge that offers its underbanked users with direct financial access to reputable banks. To date, Paywatch has integrated with five established financial institutions across Asia. Paywatch's unique system reduces the default risk on workers, which enables those workers to bank with top-tier financial institutions and disrupts high-interest payday lending practices. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Construction industry players have called for a Covid-19 Act (Act 829) amendment due to the delay in construction works during the lockdown this year. RHB Research analyst Loong Kok Wen said the real estate sector is still reeling from the effects of the pandemic as the lower-income segment has been badly affected. 'Hence, certain incentives or stimulus measures are still needed to accelerate the recovery of the industry,' she said in a research note today. Loong said the Real Estate and Housing Developers Association (Rehda) indicated the need for such amendment given the inefficiencies and interruptions resulting from the lockdown. The industry supply chain had been disrupted and contractors were drawing the stocks from suppliers, she said. 'The industry is hopeful that the amendments can be gazetted in November.' Rehda president Datuk Soam Heng Choon said the association had made several proposals to the government to help the property market recover. This included the Home Ownership Assistance Programme (HOAP), extension of the current real property gains tax (RPGT) waiver, removal of the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio, and reviewing the threshold for foreigners buying properties. 'While the HOAP is similar to the previous developers' interest-bearing scheme, REHDA is advocating greater transparency and this scheme should only be available for properties priced below RM500,000. 'At the same time, industry players are also lobbying for the extension of the Home Ownership Campaign (HOC). If some of these proposals are accepted, we think it will help to expedite the recovery in the housing market and boost affordability for first-time homebuyers.' RHB Research said generally, developers were turning more optimistic for the outlook in the first half of 2022 as the country's vaccination rate advances further. 'Property sales under the HOC grew by about 10 per cent year-on-year (YoY). Based on our checks with a few developers, while the property sales in the quarters of 2021 are expected to be softer quarter-on-quarter (QoQ) as most companies are on track to hit their sales targets by year-end.' Loong said certain projects with good locations and attractive designs were still well-received. Soam said the Housing Ministry was currently working with other ministries and departments to develop a database to have a detailed study on the supply issue to address the overhang units that can be better targeted. He added that the database is expected to be ready next year. 

ALOR STAR: The Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) today obtained a remand order against 15 people including a woman, for allegedly submitting falsified bank statements to apply for a tender with a solid waste management company. Magistrate Siti Norhidayah Mohd Noor granted between three and five-days remand against the suspects, aged between 31 and 68 to allow MACC to carry out further investigations. It was learnt that six others who were detained in connection with the case, had been released on MACC bail. According to a source, MACC had detained 21 people from several companies in connection with a case of submitting falsified bank statements to a solid waste management company based in Kedah. Some of the suspects were detained in separate locations in Bangi, Selangor while the rest were arrested upon turning up at the Kedah MACC headquarters to have their statements recorded. It was learnt that among the suspects were private company owners, directors and managers who submitted the forged documents to apply for a solid waste collection contract. Kedah MACC director Datuk Shaharom Nizam Abd Manap confirmed the arrests. He said the case was being investigated under Section 18 of the MACC Act 2009. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Sept 24 — The ringgit failed to sustain earlier gains to end the week lower as the US dollar trimmed its losses overnight. At 6pm, the local note slipped to 4.1865/1890 against the greenback from 4.1800/1825 at yesterday's close. The US dollar was reported to be hovering at a one-week low after its biggest decline in almost a month earlier this week as worries over the fate of Chinese property giant Evergrande lingered. On the local front, Malaysia's latest Producer Price Index (PPI) inflation in August continued to be higher than the Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation, signalling pressure on suppliers to pass some of the cost increases to end-consumers. Hence, MIDF Research projected pressure on cost to continue because disruptions from the global pandemic were causing supply chain challenges. Headline CPI's inflation moderated to 2.0 per cent year-on-year last month. A trader said some market players stayed on the sidelines ahead of the weekend. At the close, the ringgit was traded mixed against a basket of major currencies. The ringgit decreased versus the British pound to 5.7359/7393 from 5.7157/7192 at yesterday's close, and slipped to 4.9120/9150 versus the euro from 4.8998/9027 yesterday. However, the local note rose vis-a-vis the Singapore dollar to 3.0981/1004 from 3.1002/1025 and strengthened against the yen to 3.7925/7951 from 3.8017/8040 previously. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Paramount Corp Bhd's unit Utropolis Sdn Bhd is buying 13.3 hectares of freehold land with a lake view in Cyberjaya from Makmur Asiamaju Sdn Bhd for RM102.7 million. In a statement today, the property developer said the acquisition allowed it to grow its series of Sejati branded homes.  Paramount deputy group chief executive officer Benjamin Teo said the company had a solid reputation in Cyberjaya. 'We hope to replicate the success of these two developments and the timing couldn't be better. We are building on the strong momentum of Sejati Lakeside as we target to launch its final phase comprising three-storey lakefront semi-detached homes, in the fourth quarter of this year,' he added.   Teo said development on the new land was expected to generate a gross development value (GDV) of RM319.8 million over six years. This will strengthen the company's current GDV of RM7.6 billion and contribute positively to future earnings.  Paramount said the acquisition was in line with its strategy of replenishing its landbank at locations with strong growth potential and to scale up its property development activities to generate long-term sustainable income. The landed residential development is also in line with Paramount's strategy of balancing its property development profile with a mix of different types of products to cater to different market demands.  The new land is within a kilometre radius of Paramount's first high-end landed residential development in Cyberjaya, Sejati Residences and Sejati Lakeside. It is a 35-minute drive from Kuala Lumpur city centre or 25 minutes from Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA), and only 10 minutes from Putrajaya via major highways.  Sejati Lakeside is a 41.4-acre low density landed residential development set against a panoramic 45-acre lake.  The Sejati Lakeside development is ongoing and has recorded a 99 per cent take-up rate for its first two phases comprising of two-storey terrace and superlink homes. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Reducing emissions will be a difficult task for the shipping industry because shipowners will continue to prioritise the need to maintain a low-cost transportation model, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) Malaysia. Despite the cost and availability of technology, the decarbonisation effort is deemed 'desirable' by industry players, multinational professional services firm said. PwC Malaysia Partner, South East Asia (sustainability and climate change) leader Andrew Chan said apart from reducing emissions in their operations, shipowners would most likely start looking at their supply chain partners as part of a more holistic approach to decarbonisation. He said supplies of methanol, ammonia, and hydrogen, cleaner-burning alternatives to bunker oil, were not yet available in sufficient quantities to power the world's 60,000 oceangoing ships and that they were several times more expensive. 'Local ship owners can consider partnerships with companies not traditionally in their sector or working in industry groups that are committed to pursuing net-zero targets and sustainability initiatives,' he told the New Straits Times recently. For example, Neoline, a French start-up that makes wind-powered, carbon-free cargo ships, has a contract with tire manufacturer Michelin to move its tires across the Atlantic. 'Partnering with such customers can provide a sustained level of demand and reduce the risks of upfront investments in retrofitting an existing vessel or ordering ships that comply with the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) emission targets.' Chan said partnerships could also extend to include triple-helix collaborations, part of the 12th Malaysia Plan strategy to stimulate innovation. 'To reap benefits from a three-way collaboration, local shipping companies can start engaging the government and universities on sustainability shipping technology,' he urged. Chan said capital providers would be valuable partners to local shippers, citing that financial institutions are essential in the net-zero transition. 'The demand for financing and investment in climate adaptation will benefit the entire industry with one of the outcomes from the United Nations (UN) Climate Change Conference 2021 (COP26) agenda being a doubling in the portion of financing committed to adaptation funding by 2025. 'This allows Malaysia to obtain some of this support and will help shippers, especially smaller ones, with the cost associated with decarbonisation,' he said. Chan said this could boost local initiatives. For example, Bank Negara Malaysia announced an RM1 billion Low Carbon Transition Facility in the 2022 Budget to assist small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in incorporating sustainable and low-carbon practices into their business operations. PwC said the development of more sophisticated reporting should also accompany efforts to open up financing opportunities for the Malaysian shipping sector. It added measuring progress would be critical to achieving the target. Still, the development of broader environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) measures may provide information to stakeholders requiring this transition support. 'Industry-specific disclosures can highlight how the shipping sector contributes to the societies and economies they operate in, for example, through job creation, local SME sourcing. 'This helps partners better evaluate opportunities in the shipping sector in Malaysia which align with their purpose, and more importantly, ensures that the benefits of the transition are shared widely with workers and across industries and regions.' Chan said the demand for a transition requires investment in new modes of power for local shippers and sourcing cleaner fuel alternatives. According to Clarkson Research Services, a shipping-services provider, the transition is estimated to cost the shipping industry about US$3 trillion. However, it added there might be factors that can help make this transition more valuable. The Asia Pacific was responsible for 52 per cent of global carbon-related energy emissions, but was only decarbonising at 0.9 per cent in 2020, according to PwC's Code Red- Asia Pacific's Rumens to go Green report. 'Transportation is the second-largest contributor to Malaysia's greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, including ships,' said Chan. According to the International Energy Agency, international shipping also accounted for about 2.0 per cent of global energy-related carbon emissions in 2020. This was undoubtedly an industry where targeted change would result in a more significant positive impact for the local ship owners efforts to decarbonise, said Chan. 'The IMO obligation to cut GHG emission in half by 2050 is commendable, but how much this would go towards accelerating decarbonisation at a rate to meet the 1.5-degree global warming goals of the Paris Agreement should be clearly defined.' Meanwhile, the UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, in October 2021 reportedly said zero-emission ships must be the default choice. Before the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) this year, nine large international companies, including Amazon, IKEA and Unilever, had announced their plans to move their products on what is known as zero-carbon ships by 2040, a more stringent target than the one agreed upon by the industry. Chan said Covid-19 has significantly impacted supply chains and logistics, which proved to be vulnerable to disruption. 'We are seeing businesses increase their regional and local sourcing, which would impact the volume and type of vessels needed to support this,' he said. Chan said a greater need for shorter-distance vessels might make alternative fuel sources like electric power or biomass (sourced within the region) feasible. 'These are opportunities for local shippers to innovate on new shipping technology and reskill marine engineers to retrofit or build new vessels.' Additionally, he said there is quite a bit of uncertainty as shipowners started mapping out their plans to comply with the IMO emission targets. 'There will need to be greater clarity on future fuels, how much will be available and whether customers are willing to pay a premium for a more sustainable mode of transport.' According to World Economic Forum, the shipping industry was responsible for 90 per cent of world trade by volume. It would not be possible to import and export raw materials, commodity items, food, and manufactured goods. 'Hence, there needs to be careful consideration of how the cost of decarbonisation is managed, so it does not present a burden to consumers,' he cautioned. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Frontken Corp Bhd's net profit increased 28 per cent year-on-year (YoY) to RM27.30 million in the third quarter (Q3) ended September 30, 2021, from RM21.34 million recorded previously. In an exchange filing today, the surface engineering service provider said this was mainly contributed by improved revenue, strict cost management and continual enhancement of our processes, leading to better production efficiency. Its Q3 revenue rose per cent YoY to RM116.60 million from RM94.80 million on the back of significant contributions by the company's subsidiaries in Taiwan and Malaysia, supported by the strong demand and new orders for the provision of manpower supply and mechanical rotating equipment services. For the first nine-month period, Frontken's net profit expanded 27.7 per cent to RM74.96 million from RM58.68 million, while revenue grew 23 per cent YoY to RM328.74 million from RM267.28 million. Frontken said higher demand and firm orders from customers on advanced node chips benefited the company's semiconductor business. 'The customer has announced earlier this year their plans to invest US$100 billion over the next three years to ramp up production.' The global semiconductor market is expected to grow to US$551 billion (RM2.29 trillion) in 2021, up from its previous forecast of US$527.7 billion (RM2.19 trillion), according to World Semiconductor Trade Statistics (WSTS). The global semiconductor market is expected to grow 25.1 per cent this year. Frontken said the strong demand for its customer's industry-leading technology advance nodes chips and their significant investment for capacity expansion would support Frontken's business growth in years to come. 'This has led us to the decision also to expand our production capacity. As a result, we recently announced the purchase of a new facility in Kaoshiung, Taiwan, which we expect to be commissioned sometime during the second half of 2022.' Meanwhile, the company has noticed a robust improvement in the oil and gas industry, reflecting in its new orders trickling in from the various umbrella contracts for the provision of manpower supply and mechanical rotating equipment services and parts with the Petronas group of companies. 'We hope the momentum will pick up further in the fourth quarter of this year and throughout 2022, where our soon to be completed new facility in Pengerang will be ready to support the contracts we have with our customers.' Frontken is cautiously optimistic that its performance for the remaining months in 2021 would likely be satisfactory amid the encouraging business developments. 

KUALA LUMPUR: The plantation sector is breathing a sigh of relief following the government's recent approval to recruit some 32,000 foreign workers to address the acute workforce shortage in the oil palm industry. Malaysian Palm Oil Association (MPOA) chief executive officer Datuk Mohamad Nageeb Wahab said the approval to bring foreign workers to Malaysia would immensely help the industry to mitigate the acute production shortfall experienced currently. 'While our needs are much higher than what was approved, nevertheless, it would provide much relief to the industry. 'We welcomed and thanked the government for this piece of good news. However, a few technicalities need to be ironed out, such as standard operating procedures (SOPs) and the source country government green light for the workers to leave their country before they can start work here,' he told the New Straits Times. He said MPOA is hopeful these foreign workers can be in Malaysia as early as possible. However, it might take some time before the industry can physically deploy them at the plantations. 'Once they are here, besides fulfilling the authorities SOPs, they need to be again trained for the tasks assigned to them,' he said. MPOA reiterated the century-old industry would likely miss its target of adding an additional RM20 billion to its revenue for 2021, mainly dragged by the nationwide acute labour shortage of about 75,000 harvesters. The industry would also need to ensure some 32,000 foreign workers prove their capabilities to manage and adhere to the SOPs. Mohamad Nageeb said MPOA is hopeful the government to allow the industry to bring in the remaining requirements (foreign labour), enabling the industry to optimise their potential production of more than 20 million tonnes annually. The oil palm sector had been experiencing a labour shortage even before the pandemic and exacerbated since the government freezing the intake of foreign workers in March 2020. This shortage translated to about 20 per cent to 30 per cent shortfall in Malaysia's crude palm oil (CPO) potential production last year. 'This shortfall has also resulted in our cost of production spiralling up as well as our competitive edge.' Mohamad Nageeb said the oil palm sector was not fully exploiting the current historically high CPO price, especially after its future price breached over RM5,000 per ton recently. 'Although oil palm companies and smallholders are enjoying good profits, they could have done much, much better.' Mohamad Nageeb said MPOA expects the local CPO production to hover around 18 million tonnes in 2021, the lowest ever in 30 years. For the first nine months of 2021, the average CPO price stood at about RM4,200 per tonne, according to MPOA. 'Since the pandemic, we have enforced strict SOPs across all our plantations and mills, and our track record in managing the incidents has been impressive by the number of infections at oil palm estates,' he said. The plantation industry is highly dependent on foreign workers and accounts for about 84 per cent of its optimum total workforce. As a result of the labour shortage, the industry lost an estimated RM10 billion to RM12 billion in revenue for 2020, on the back of an average CPO price of RM2,685 per tonne. Malaysia produced about 19.14 million metric tonnes of CPO in 2020, accounting for 26 per cent of the world's production. Meanwhile, the industry generated export revenue of RM73.3 billion and contributed 3.6 per cent of the country's gross domestic product in 2020. MPOA said that about six million hectares had been planted with oil palm in Malaysia over the years, covering about 69 per cent of the country's agricultural land. While the industry is aggressively pursuing automation and mechanisation to reduce dependence on guest workers, the discovery process may take some time. 'Until then, we would still have to rely on guest workers. So the fallacy that guest workers are cheap is untrue. 'We would rather have locals, but the reality is that most of them are not interested even with attractive packages being offered,' he added. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Sept 17 — AmInvestment Bank has maintained its 'overweight' rating on Malaysia's telecommunication sector on initiatives by the government to provide affordable data packages to the people, especially affordable plans for youths. New plans have been unveiled for youths below 21 years old and students at RM30 for 20 gigabytes (GB) of data with three-month validity, free 1GB data daily, unlimited basic internet, and a 4G device package for families with a monthly commitment of RM40 per month, which comes with a 12- or 24-month contract.  The research firm said while the Communications and Multimedia Ministry has not revealed the list of participating telecommunication companies (telcos), it expects all cellular operators (celcos) to begin announcing their own propositions soon.  'Nevertheless, we do not expect this new scheme to raise the operating expenses of the cellular operators, given that more affordable plans are mostly opportunity costs for the higher revenue which celcos can secure under their original plans,' it said in a research note today.  AmInvestment Bank also did not make any changes to telcos' revenue forecasts at this juncture. Meanwhile, the government's MyDigital initiative, involving an investment of RM15 billion over 10 years via a wholly government-owned special purpose vehicle called Digital Nasional, will own, execute and manage the 5G spectrum and infrastructure.  This will allow licensed telcos with equal access to the infrastructure to roll out 5G services nationwide, expected to begin in stages by the end of this year, it said.  'Hence, we view this as being neutral to cellular operators who will not be burdened by the 5G capex.  'However, being the owner of the nationwide high-speed broadband fiberised network, we believe that this is positive for TM and to a lesser extent, Time dotCom, in providing the critical backhaul backbone system for 5G networks,' said the research firm.  The 'overweight' rating on the sector comes with a 'buy' call for TM which has shown significant cost improvements and set for brighter prospects under the government's MyDigital initiatives.  However, AmInvestment Bank has maintained its 'hold' rating for Maxis. 

KUALA LUMPUR: At least RM3 billion of capital injection will be made available to assist public listed companies affected by Covid-19, Finance Minister Tengku Datuk Seri Zafrul Abdul Aziz said.    In tabling the 2022 Budget today, Tengku Zafrul said the companies will have access to the additional funds through a government-owned special purpose vehicle (SPV) in the form of equity instruments or other related instruments. 'For this purpose, Khazanah Nasional Bhd will be given the mandate to assist the government in providing the infrastructure to administer a fund of at least RM3 billion,' he added. Since the beginning of the pandemic, scores of public listed companies across different sectors have been affected financially, and in market capitalisation. According to the Securities Commission Annual Report 2020, energy and utilities led the underperforming sectors, declining 18 per cent and 11.8 per cent year-on-year respectively in terms of market capitalisation. The regulator said the energy sector was pressured by volatile and significantly lower crude oil prices last year, averaging at US$43.3 per barrel compared to an average of US$64.2 per barrel in 2019, while the utilities sector was affected by lower commercial and industrial usage especially during the Movement Control Order (MCO) period. The other sectors recorded a decline, including property (-11.1 per cent), transportation and logistics (-10.1 per cent), construction (-6.0 per cent), plantation (-5.6 per cent), financial services (-1.2 per cent) and telecommunications and media (-0.7 per cent). 

KUALA LUMPUR: Allianz Malaysia Bhd's net profit slipped to RM115.16 million in the third quarter (Q3) ended September 30, 2021 from RM129.07 million in the same period last year. Group revenue, however, rose 3.5 per cent to RM1.58 billion from RM1.53 billion previously, Allianz Malaysia said in a filing with Bursa Malaysia today. 'This is due mainly to higher gross earned premiums and investment income by RM35.0 million and RM18.7 million respectively,' it said. For the quarter under review, the general insurance segment recorded an operating revenue of RM650.2 million, an increase of 3.0 per cent as compared to RM631.4 million in 2020 due to increase in gross earned premiums by RM20.2 million. The increase in gross earned premiums of the general insurance segment was attributable to higher premiums from motor business. For Q3, the life insurance's revenue increased 3.9 per cent to RM931.3 million compared to RM896.5 million in 2020 due to increase in gross earned premiums and investment income by RM14.8 million and RM20.0 million respectively. The increase in gross earned premiums of the life insurance segment was mainly contributed by higher premiums from the agency channel. For the nine-month period, the company's net profit decreased to RM323.82 million from RM376.30 million last year, while its revenue rose to RM4.76 billion from RM4.42 billion previously. Allianz Malaysia recorded a total of RM4.16 billion in gross written premiums (GWP) in 9MFY21, a 4.3 per cent increase from RM3.99 billion in 2020. Its total assets grew 7.4 per cent to RM22.91 billion in 9MFY21 from RM21.33 billion gained last year. Allianz Malaysia chief executive officer Zakri Khir said despite the various curveballs presented by the pandemic and the ensuing government measures as well as the tough market conditions, the company's general and life insurance business rallied back to deliver growth. 'As a group, we remain humbled and thankful that we are able to remain profitable, especially in times like these.  The implementation of the National Recovery Plan coupled with the declining fluidity of the Covid-19 situation, we will continue to be on our toes, employing strategies that will not only drive business and profitability, but also serve our communities better,' said Zakri. 

KUALA LUMPUR: British American Tobacco (Malaysia) Bhd's (BAT Malaysia) net profit increased 23.43 per cent to RM78.68 million in the third quarter (Q3) ended September 30, 2021, from RM63.74 million a year ago, boosted by an increase in market share. Revenue in the same quarter decreased marginally by 2.31 per cent to RM613.02 million from RM627.52 million recorded last year. BAT Malaysia managing director Nedal Salem said this marked the company's third consecutive quarter of financial growth. 'This growth momentum is a result of an increase in the share of market and volume which improved our revenue and profit from operations,' he said in a statement today. However, Salem said consumer affordability remains under pressure due to the high tobacco tax rate, with 57.9 per cent of the market dominated by the black market. 'To effectively manage the issue, the government must enhance enforcement, not increase excise, and address the price gap between legal and black market products,' he said in a statement today. For the nine months, the company's net profit increased 26.19 per cent to RM213.41 million from RM169.12 million a year earlier, while revenue grew 7.26 per cent to RM1.78 billion from RM1.66 billion. This was primarily due to the company's seven per cent growth in domestic volume, which outperformed the total legal industry recovery rate of six per cent.  The volume growth led to revenue growth of seven per cent compared with the same period last year. 'Consistent with the volume growth trajectory, the company's total market share stood at 52.5 per cent, registering an increase of 1.0ppt (percentage point) compared with the same period last year,' it added.  BAT Malaysia portfolio grew in all segments, with Dunhill growing by 2.1ppt in the premium segment, Peter Stuyvesant and Pall Mall by 0.8ppt in the aspirational premium segment and Rothmans and KYO by 2.5ppt in the value-for-money (VFM) segment. 'We remain steadfast in our efforts to sustain the recovery of the legal cigarette market and advocate for the introduction of a regulatory framework for reduced-risk products such as nicotine vapour,' Salem added. BAT Malaysia has declared a third interim dividend of 26 sen per share, amounting to RM74 million, to be paid out on November 25 to shareholders.  This equates to a 94 per cent payout on its Q3 earnings per share and a dividend yield of seven per cent. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia's unemployment stood at 4.3 per cent with 705,000 unemployed persons in October, the lowest rate since April 2020, according to the Department of Statistics Malaysia (DOSM). DOSM said the number of unemployed persons continued to eased by 3.4 per cent in October compared to 729,600 recorded in September 2021. 'Although the number of unemployed persons was on a declining trend, it remained relatively higher than the pre-pandemic period,' said Chief Statistician Malaysia Datuk Seri Dr. Mohd Uzir Mahidin. Of the total number of unemployed persons in October, he said 83.6 per cent were the actively unemployed or those who were available for work and were actively seeking jobs.  'This group recorded a decrease of 3.5 per cent to 589,5000 persons in October 2021, compared to  611,000 persons in September 2021,' he said in a statement today. In terms of the duration of unemployment, Mohd Uzir said the unemployed persons for less than three months encompassed 55.5 per cent while those who were in long-term unemployment of more than a year was 7.8 per cent.  'As for the inactively unemployed who believed that there were no jobs available, it decreased by 2.7 per cent month-on-month (MoM) to record 115,400 persons in October compared to 118,700 persons recorded in September 2021.' He said the youth unemployment rate for aged 15 to 24 years stood at 13.9 per cent for the third month, whereas the unemployment rate for youth aged 15 to 30 years recorded a fall of 0.4 percentage points MoM to 8.1 per cent in October 2021. He said the continuous resumption of more economic and social and recreation activities led the labour force situation to remain stable in October 2021.  'This was reflected by the higher number of employment during the month while unemployment was on a declining trend.  'In October 2021, most of the states had moved into Phase IV of the National Recovery Plan (NRP) with the overall increasing vaccination rate, while the number of daily Covid-19 cases is showing a sign of declining,' he said in a statement today. Mohd Uzir said these good headways had steered further resumption of economic activities including the permission of inter-state travel.  In addition, more domestic tourist destinations were opened to fully-vaccinated individuals, hence fostering more travelling and domestic tourism activities during the month, he said.  DOSM said the number of labour force in October gained by 0.4 per cent month-on-month (MoM) to 16.26 million persons compared to 16.19 million persons recorded in September 2021. Mohd Uzir said the upward trend of employed persons persisted during October 2021, having registered an addition of 0.6 per cent MoM to 15.55 million persons compared to 15.46 million persons registered in September 2021. DOSM said the employment-to-population ratio inched up by 0.3 percentage points to record 65.8 per cent compared to 65.5 per cent in September 2021. In terms of employment by economic sector, the number of employed persons in services sector continued to trend up particularly in wholesale and retail trade; food and beverages services; information and communication and transport and storage activities.  Similarly, DOSM said the employment in manufacturing and construction sectors remained positive for the third month whereas agriculture and mining and quarrying sectors were still on a decreasing trend. On employment status, DOSM said the employees' category which made up 77.0 per cent of total employed persons sustained the positive growth in October 2021 by 0.4 per cent, registering at 11.97 million persons compared to 11.93 million persons in September 2021. The own-account workers category which consisted mostly of daily income earners working as small business operators as well as smallholders, risen by 1.4 per cent to 2.61 million persons in October 2021 compared to 2.57 million persons registered in September 2021. DOSM said the encouraging MoM changes in both employment categories reflected the positive impact of the resumption of economic activities and the lifting of the inter-state travel ban during the month. On the overall labour force situation, Mohd Uzir said the implementation of the NRP had accelerated the vaccination process among Malaysia's population.  'In line with this, most of the states were shifted to Phase IV of the NRP, thus enabling more economic and social and recreational activities to resume.' He said the relaxation of the inter-state travel was anticipated to bring a positive influence to the domestic tourism-related industry including arts, entertainment and recreational and transportation activities to regain the business momentum.  'With these positive progresses, may steer the recovery process of the economy in the upcoming months, not considering the new and more lethal Covid-19 variants.  'Additionally, through the 2022 Budget which also focuses on rejuvenating the labour market, among others by restoring business capabilities, generating and retaining jobs as well as increase social protection, may support the businesses as well as employees, hence accelerating the recovery of the labour market,' he added. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 26 — The Ministry of Health (MoH) said new Covid-19 cases hover around the 5,000-mark ceiling after logging 4,744 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. The latest figure represents an increase of 678 cases from the 4,066 new infections recorded yesterday. It also brings the total number of Covid-19 cases in the country, since the start of the pandemic, to 2,844,969. Health director-general Tan Sri Dr Noor Hisham Abdullah also disclosed that only 30 or 0.6 per cent of cases reported today were in Categories 3, 4 and 5 that required hospitalisation. 'There are currently 129 patients being treated in intensive care units (ICU), of which 19 are suspected, probable or under investigation for Covid-19. 'Out of these 129, 72 need ventilators to help them breathe, including 48 who are confirmed as Covid-19 positive,' he said. He added that 21 new clusters were also detected over the past 24 hours, bringing the total number of active clusters in the country to 259. He said that Malaysia's rate of infection currently stands at 1.09, with Negri Sembilan being the state with the highest infectivity rate, at 1.13. 

KUALA LUMPUR: YTL Corp Bhd reported a 215 per cent surge in pre-tax profit for the first quarter ended September 30, 2021 (Q1 2022), owing to strong performance from its key operating subsidiaries in Malaysia and abroad.   The conglomerate earned a pre-tax profit of RM325.4 million in the current quarter, up from RM103.4 million in the previous quarter ended June 30, 2021. (Q4 2021).   Revenue increased 18 per cent to RM5.06 billion in Q1 2022, up from RM4.28 billion in Q4 2021.   Tan Sri (Sir) Francis Yeoh Sock Ping, executive chairman of YTL Corp, said the group had a strong start to the fiscal year 2022, with revenue increasing 18 per cent to nearly RM5.1 billion in the first quarter.  'Improved operational performance across virtually all divisions drove revenue and profits,' he said in a statement.   Yeoh stated that the group's EbItda (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) remained strong, increasing by 22 per cent to RM1.2 billion for the quarter under review, compared to RM976.1 million for the corresponding quarter in 2020. YTL Power International Bhd reported a net profit of RM51.3 million in the first quarter of 2022, compared to a net loss of RM466.68 million in the fourth quarter of 2021. Revenue increased by 16 per cent to RM3.51 billion in the quarter under review, compared to RM3.03 billion in Q4 2021.   Yeoh, who is YTL Power executive chairman, said the company's performance for the quarter under review improved significantly, thanks to the main operating segments.   'In October 2021, YTL PowerSeraya Pte Ltd, which undertakes our merchant multi-utilities business in Singapore, was appointed as the electricity importer for a two-year trial to import 100MW of electricity from Malaysia via existing interconnectors,' he said. Yeoh said as the appointed electricity importer, YTL PowerSeraya would work with Singapore's Energy Market Authority to refine all technical settings and regulatory arrangements under Singapore's Electricity Import Framework during this two-year trial. 'We have also embarked on acquiring the Kulai Young Estate in Johor, which we intend to develop into a large scale solar power facility with a generation capacity of up to 500MW.  'This is in line with our shift towards investing in more sustainable, renewable energy solutions moving forward,' he said. Malayan Cement Bhd, YTL's cement operating company, saw revenue increase by three per cent to RM284.6 million in Q1 2022.  However, it reported a pre-tax loss of RM32.27 million compared to a net profit of RM9.3 million in Q4 2021. Yeoh, Malayan Cement's executive chairman, said the company's revenue increased marginally for the quarter under review due to the completion of the acquisition of 10 companies and their respective subsidiaries from YTL Cement Bhd on September 21. He said the RM32.3 million pre-tax loss was primarily due to fixed costs incurred and low revenue recorded as the country remained in lockdown for the first two months of the quarter under review. YTL Hospitality REIT reported higher revenue of RM90.2 million in Q1 2022, up from RM89.4 million in Q4 2021. Its net property income increased to RM58.2 million in the quarter under review, up from RM54.7 million the previous quarter, while revenue available for distribution increased to RM17.9 million, up from RM17.7 million in Q4 2021. 

KUALA LUMPUR: The proposal to introduce equity safety net framework only for the sale of shares by mandated Bumiputera agencies and companies, Minister in the Prime Minister's Department (Economy) Datuk Seri Mustapa Mohamed said today. In a statement today, Mustapa said the agencies and companies included Permodalan Nasional Bhd, Lembaga Tabung Haji, Lembaga Tabung Angkatan Tentera and Koperasi Polis DiRaja Malaysia (KPDRM). 'The proposed sale does not involve shares and/or companies to be sold by Bumiputera individuals, non-Bumiputeras or foreign companies.  'On the other hand, this announcement only involves the sale of Bumiputera shares and/or companies by Bumiputera mandated agencies. 'Under the equity safety net framework, these sales will be offered to qualified Bumiputera consortia, companies or individuals,' he said. In tabling the 12th Malaysia Plan last week, Prime Minister Datuk Seri Ismail Sabri said an equity safety net framework would be introduced so that the sale of Bumiputera shares or companies was only offered and sold to other Bumiputera consortia, companies or individuals. The initiative is to ensure sustainable Bumiputera equity ownership. Mustapa said in 2019, Bumiputera ownership in market value-based corporate equity was only 17.2 per cent.  'This announcement is made to ensure that the existing ownership will remain in Bumiputera ownership and will not be eroded.  'This proposal will not take away the interests of other races,' he added. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Sime Darby Plantation Bhd's (SD Plantation) net profit catapulted 221.05 per cent to RM610.00 million in the third quarter (Q3) ended September 30, 2021, from RM190.00 million a year ago. SD Plantation, in an exchange filing today, said this was driven by stronger recurring contribution from the upstream segment, which compensated for the decline in profits contributed by the downstream segment.  Its Q3 revenue surged 59.1 per cent to RM5.06 billion from RM3.18 billion. This was mainly fuelled by the upstream segment on the back of realised higher average of crude palm oil and palm kernel prices as well as improved oil extraction rate. For the nine-month period, SD Plantation's net profit skyrocketed 72.1 per cent to RM1.79 billion from RM1.04 billion, while revenue jumped 39.3 per cent to RM13.15 billion from RM9.44 billion. Chairman Tan Sri Megat Najmuddin Megat Khas said the group was on track for a strong close to the financial year ending December 31, 2021 (FY21). 'While high CPO price is certainly a boon for the whole industry, SDP also owes our strong performance to the management team and our employees across the world who delivered tremendous value in spite of numerous challenges,' he said in a separate statement today. He said the improving situation of Covid-19 globally augured well for industries and businesses everywhere. 'The group will continue to count on the support of our valued team as we prepare to leverage on the anticipated economic recovery ahead,' he added.  Group managing director Mohamad Helmy Othman Basha said the last 21 months had challenged the group, with the acute labour shortage compounded by restrictions on movement.  'Thus, the group welcomes the decision by the government to allow the industry to recruit foreign workers again,' he said. Mohamad Helmy said the pandemic had put a spotlight on the critical need to accelerate the mechanisation, automation and digitalisation of plantation operations, to reduce dependence on manual labour.  'We are spearheading this reinvention of plantation operations and will continue to ramp up our efforts to transform the nature of work in plantations.  'At the heart of all our efforts is the well-being of our people. We are determined to make plantations work less arduous, but more efficient and productive for our workers. We are also intensifying our efforts to recruit more local workers.  'As we progress further with our mechanisation initiatives, we expect to attract more Malaysians who are highly skilled,' he added. The group expects palm oil prices to remain elevated at least until the end of the year before a possible downward adjustment in the second quarter of 2022, when supplies are likely to be improved.  'The high prices will help compensate for the impact of labour shortages on the group's Malaysian upstream production,' it said. Demand is expected to remain strong as more countries ease their Covid-19 restrictions, bringing back earlier suppressed demand.   'Barring any unforeseen circumstances, we expect an overall strong financial year performance for 2021,' it said. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Business activities are likely to continue gaining momentum and bolster KPJ Healthcare Bhd's recovery closer to pre-Covid levels, said Hong Leong Investment Bank Bhd (HLIB). Its analyst Sophie Chua Siu Li said HLIB continued to be optimistic over KPJ's near-term prospects amid the group's strategy to selectively expand in high demand locations. She added gradual price revision would bode well for the group's overall recovery as the country emerged from the pandemic.  'KPJ's upcoming greenfield hospital - KPJ Damansara Specialist Hospital II (KPJ DSH2) - is expected to begin operations in August 2022.  'The new establishment has a total  capacity of 297 beds, but is expected to only open 60 beds in the first phase,' she said in a research report today. She said KPJ was recruiting key medical consultants for the hospital and had garnered strong interests from clinicians to set up practice in KPJ DSH2.  'Given the locational advantage and ability to leverage off its sister hospital, KPJ Damansara Specialist Hospital, management expects KPJ DSH2 to ramp up at a much quicker rate.' As for the group's brownfield expansion, she said both KPJ Puteri with 167 beds and KPJ Penang (151 beds) were expected to be operational by April and July this year respectively. 'KPJ intends to open an additional 1,000 beds by 2025. This is about 29 per cent increase in KPJ's total number of beds, from its existing bed count of 3,479.' However, she said the opening of new beds would not be brought on stream until unless the demand at the respective location warrants for new bed openings. HLIB said it was important to achieve bed occupancy rate (BOR) of about 75 per cent to ensure the beds opened were utilised.  'For locations with consistently low BOR (average below 50 per cent), KPJ would also potentially reduce the number of licensed beds to better reflect the demand in that location as well as to redeploy its staff to other hospitals.' Meanwhile, it said higher standard operating procedures-compliant costs and operational costs, had led to the narrowing of KPJ's margins in the past two years. 'KPJ did not pass on the entire incremental costs increase to patients, in a bid to support patient volume recovery.  'With patient footfall gradually improving, KPJ has started to review its pricing in end-2021 and expects to continue revising its pricings going forward, to better reflect the hike in costs.' HLIB said the price adjustment could be done over several months, as the group assess its pricing by different categories.  'The price adjustment should see little impact on hospital demand, as it is carried out progressively and the full impact of price revision should only be felt in the second half of 2022. This move should help to take pressure off KPJ's margins going forward.' HLIB said revenue intensity also plays a big part in accelerating the group's recovery.  'To improve the revenue per inpatient, a good case mix between surgical and medical cases is essential as surgical cases generally have higher revenue intensity.' There is still room for more growth considering the pent up demand in the healthcare system, although the number of surgeries performed has steadily increased over the past few quarters. HLIB Research made no changes to its earnings forecast for KPJ and reiterated its 'Buy' call rating with a target price of RM1.34. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Astro Malaysia Holdings Bhd (Astro) will likely need more time and marketing efforts to deliver its value proposition to targeted customers, said Hong Leong Investment Bank Bhd (HLIB Research). Analyst Tan Kai Shuen said consumers may soon find Astro's one-stop entertainment solution appealing in anticipation of streaming service availabilities becoming more varied and crowded. 'Despite the economy reopening in phases since September, advertisement expenditure (adex) and commercial subscription improvements only came in towards the end of October, resulting in earnings disappointment,' she said in a research report today. Based on the management's guidance, she said the recovery momentum in adex and commercial subscription continued in November. 'So far in December, this should contribute positively towards the bottom line as these two segments are high-margin segments.' HLIB said the recovery in adex would be supported by the resumption of business activities, year-end festivities in December and Chinese New Year in January and the resumption of live shows and the return of new Astro vernacular contents to the TV as well as advertisers exhausting their marketing budget towards year-end. For commercial subscriptions, she said enterprise customers were returning towards the end of the third quarter ended October 31, 2021. 'The number of customers was up 17 per cent quarter-on-quarter. The recovery in this segment should continue towards the next quarter as consumer activities (food and beverages and bars) and inter-state travelling (hotels) pick up.' HLIB has lowered its forecast for Astro by 4.7 per cent in the financial year ending January 31, 2022 (FY22). 'We maintain a Buy call with a slightly lower target price of RM1.40 from RM1.41 as a result of our earnings revision.' HLIB said Astro had been taking incremental steps to adapt to the changing consumer trends, including aggregating streaming services to capitalise on the shift in TV viewing preference from linear to on-demand. This includes the introduction and deploying internet-connected plug-and-play set-top boxes which reduces installation costs for Astro while allowing for on-demand viewing and avoiding rain fade issues for customers. On earnings, Astro's net profit increased 21.6 per cent year-on-year to RM105.9 million in Q3 from RM87.13 million, while revenue eased 7.3 per cent to RM1.02 billion from RM1.1 billion posted in the same preceding quarter. This was contributed by lower net finance costs and tax expenses, it said in an exchange filing yesterday. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Consumer complaints against airlines and airports have fallen 59.1 per cent in the first half of 2021 (1H21) compared to the same period last year with a total of 157 complaints being submitted to the Malaysian Aviation Commission (Mavcom). Mavcom said of the 157 complaints, 98.1 per cent were regarding airlines, while 1.9 per cent were related to airports. 'Complaints against AirAsia represented 41.4 per cent of the total complaints filed with the Commission, followed by Malaysia Airlines at 28.7 per cent and Malindo Air at 12.1 per cent. 'All airlines, except Firefly Airlines, observed a drop in the number of complaints filed with Mavcom, corresponding with a decrease in the number of passengers carried,' it said. According to Mavcom, 60.1 per cent of the complaints resulted in airlines reversing their initial decisions by providing resolutions that are more equitable or satisfactory to the consumers, reflecting a 2.3 percentage point increase compared to 2020. Mavcom resolved 97.5 per cent of the complaints received within the six-month period, while 82 of the complaints were non-actionable due to incomplete documentation by consumers, complaints falling beyond the scope of the Malaysian Aviation Consumer Protection Code 2016 (MACPC) or complaints being filed over a year from the date of the incident. Resolved complaints included those related to refunds, frequent flyer programmes and flight cancellations. At the same time, Mavcom said a total of 675 Covid-19 related refund requests were submitted to it in the first half. In addition to resolving consumer complaints and requests, Mavcom looks to improve education on air travel rights and provide further improvements to increase consumer convenience, as well as the implementation of the Airports Quality of Service (QoS) Framework. Mavcom executive chairman Datuk Seri Saripuddin Kasim said the growth of the cargo sector had been a silver lining for the aviation industry during the pandemic. 'We are pleased to be able to resolve 97.5 per cent of complaints and approve all ATRs requested, which indicates our continued dedication to both consumers and industry players alike. 'With the ballooning demand for e-commerce coupled with reduced belly space cargo capacity thrusting the cargo sector globally forward, we will continue to support local players to take advantage of the prospects ahead. 'As air travel resumes, the commission looks forward to further improving its efforts in protecting the rights of consumers and supporting aviation industry players in their post-pandemic recovery,' said Saripuddin. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Dagang NeXchange Bhd's subsidiary SilTerra Malaysia Sdn Bhd is investing RM645 million on an expansion plan that will increase its annual capacity by 20 per cent. DNeX said the investment, sourced from both capital injections by shareholders and internally generated fund, would increase SilTerra's annual capacity from 8.3 million mask layers as at end of July 2021 to 10 million mask layers. The additional capacity is expected to be ready for production by early 2023. DNeX group managing director Tan Sri Syed Zainal Abidin Mohamed Tahir said the investment was the shareholders' on-going commitment to equip SilTerra with best-in-class manufacturing capabilities and expand the production capacity to achieve a better economy of scale, with lower manufacturing cost. Syed Zainal, who is executive chairman of SilTerra, said the initiatives implemented thus far to transform SilTerra into a profitable and resilient technology company had yielded fruitful results. 'In the past six months, our debottlenecking and process improvements exercise have resulted in improved productivity and efficiency levels. 'As a result, SilTerra is now a profitable entity and is well-poised to grow further in view of the continuous strong demand for semiconductors and prevailing capacity constraints within the industry due to the high demand of electric vehicles, Internet-of-things (IoT), data centres and electronic commerce,' he said in a statement today. Syed Zainal said the demand was particularly relevant especially for the 200 millimetre (mm) specialty foundries where SilTerra is in. 'Hence, it is prudent for us to continue our long-term investment programmes for SilTerra to cater to the rising demand,' he added. SilTerra is a strategic investment of DNeX and Beijing Integrated Circuit Advanced Manufacturing and High-End Equity Investment Fund Centre. 

KUALA LUMPUR, Dec 7 — Honda Malaysia has officially launched the all-new City Hatchback with a total of 2,000 bookings collected since its marketing campaign began in October. Managing director and chief executive officer Madoka Chujo said the company is set to create another key milestone by offering the popular City model in a hatchback body type. 'This new model will be the trendsetting model with its first-in-segment advanced technology, premium features, versatility with ultra seats configurations, targeting the younger audience that prefers a sporty yet premium hatchback,' she said at the model launching here today. She said Honda Malaysia targeted to sell 1,000 units of the City Hatchback monthly with deliveries of the petrol models to begin in January. Chujo said the City Hatchback is offered in four variants — petrol models V, E and S as well as the RS e:HEV hybrid model, with colour options including ignite red metallic, meteoroid gray metallic, platinum white pearl, lunar silver metallic and crystal black pearl. She said the V variant is priced at RM87,860 on-the-road without insurance, inclusive of the sales and service tax (SST) rebate, E variant at RM83,080 and S variant at RM75,670. 'The price for City Hatchback RS e:HEV hybrid model, which will be made available in early 2022, will be announced closer to the delivery period,' she said. Honda Malaysia offers an eight-year unlimited-mileage warranty for its lithium-ion battery for the two-motor hybrid powertrain system in the RS e:HEV model. On another development, Chujo said the pandemic-related disruption and supply chains issues complicated by shortages of semiconductors chips has resulted in a 40 per cent shortages of sales this year from its original 2021's target for 80,000 units sales. She said Honda Malaysia, like its global peers, has been struggling to ramp up car production due to the chip shortage. Ask whether Honda Malaysia has approached local semiconductor-related companies in dealing with the chip shortages, Chujo said the decision to appoint supplier is mainly done by Honda global headquarter in Japan and Honda's Bangkok-based Asia-Oceania Regional Headquarters in Thailand. 

KUALA LUMPUR: George Kent (Malaysia) Bhd posted a net profit of RM133,000 in the second quarter (Q2) ended September 30, 2021. Its revenue stood at RM79.7 million for Q2 2021, George Kent said in a statement today. For the six-month period, the company registered a net profit of RM11.93 million on a revenue of RM140.97 million. George Kent said it continued operations performed creditably despite the disruptions brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic. 'Contribution from these continuing businesses were on par with the preceding quarter. However, net profit was impacted by the recognition of a one-off impairment of RM9.85 million from the disposal of the investment in MRCB George Kent Sdn Bhd, which is not tax-deductible,' it said. George Kent said the results reflected the robustness of its metering business. Despite the various iterations of the Movement Control Order (MCO) implemented domestically and the global lockdowns in most countries due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the company said orders for its water meters were largely uninterrupted. 'However, temporary suspension of operations and limitation in the workforce due to the MCO had affected our production ability to meet demands for our meters and slowed the site progress of our construction projects. After the temporary suspension, the production capacity was at 60 per cent,' it added. George Kent declared an interim dividend of 1.0 sen per share for the financial year 2022, payable on December 29 this year. Commenting on its prospects, chairman Tan Sri Tan Kay Hock said the company remained relevant and competitive. Tan said the company's investment in technology would be one of its innovative tools to digitalise its existing businesses and generate new business ventures over the long term. 'This will help solidify our future growth potential, thereby ensuring continued growth in shareholder returns as George Kent has delivered over decades,' he said. 

KUALA LUMPUR: KPower Bhd (KPower) deputy chairman Mustakim Mat Nun  has bèen redesignated as executive chairman effective immediately. 'In his role as executive chairman, Mustakim will be responsible for leading KPower's board of directors and overseeing the company's business.  'The appointment of Mustakim is hoped to further solidify and consolidate the company in its effort to strengthen its presence in the regional renewable energy industry,' KPower said today. KPower also appointed Ahmad Riza Mohd Saian, a fellow chartered accountant of Chartered Accountants Australia & New Zealand (CAANZ) as its new independent non-executive director. Ahmad Riza, who was chief executive officer of MyCreative Group, is an experienced finance professional with more than 22 years of working experience in several industries.  He specialises in the areas of investments and valuations, value creations, mergers and acquisitions, stakeholders' management, financing, branding, operations and business.  He also served as an auditor for 10 years with stints in PricewaterhouseCoopers, Kuala Lumpur and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in London. 

KUCHING: The crushing defeat of DAP and PKR in the state election proves that people in Sarawak want a local-based party to lead its government, that is Gabungan Parti Sarawak (GPS). Its chairman Tan Sri Abang Johari Openg, in his victory speech, said the outcome of the polls was a clear sign that the people wanted political stability to continue development in the state. '(The people) have said that Sarawak is better looked after by Sarawakians. 'With this mandate, it will also give GPS the push to continue with implementing its sustainable economic development agenda and social policies that are people-centric,' he said. Abang Johari said he was in 'no hurry' to form his cabinet, as he had good partners within the coalition. 'When the time comes, I will announce my cabinet.' Elaborating on the outcome of today's polls, Abang Johari is upbeat that GPS can secure two-thirds majority, enabling the state-based coalition to form a stronger Sarawak administration. As at 9.30pm, GPS had won 58 seats, three seats more than the two-thirds majority mark. Parti Sarawak Bersatu (PSB) and DAP won two seats each. 

KUALA LUMPUR: Censof Holdings Bhd's wholly-owned subsidiary, Century Software (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd (CSM) today signed a share subscription agreement with GW Intech Sdn Bhd (GWI) to acquire a 51 per cent stake in the latter. The acquisition will be carried out through the share subscription of 100,000 new GWI shares for RM500,000. Censof group managing director Ameer Shaik Mydin said this acquisition will strengthen Censof's dominant position in the local government front by providing innovative and digital financial management solutions. 'With Censof's strengths in digitising the government services, I believe we can grow this business to provide smart government solutions to the local government. 'This acquisition is a win-win for Censof and GWI where we will be able to capitalise on each other's expertise, in addition to increase the number of government agencies in compliance with the SAGA system application criteria provided under Censof's financial management solutions, from our current clientele of over 90 agencies to over 140 agencies. 'This acquisition will undoubtedly improve our earnings in the near future,' he said in a statement. GWI, established in 2001 as an information technology (IT) solution provider, specialises in analysing, designing, developing and implementing IT solutions. GWI is the first company to be awarded the ePBT 1.0 contract in 2005 by the Ministry of Housing and Local Government. Subsequently in 2014, GWI secured the ePBT 2.0 redevelopment project to convert the client server based ePBT system to a web-based version of the ePBT 2.0. GWI currently has several maintenance contracts with Alor Setar City Council Kuala Kangsar City Council, Manjung City Council, Langkawi City Council and the District Council of Kerian. The ePBT system is a financial application system developed for local authorities to collect and make payments for local services accounts such as assessment tax, rental of business premises and compounds. Today, the ePBT 2.0 system is deployed by over 50 local authorities, mainly in Perak, Negeri Sembilan, Kelantan, Kedah and Pahang. 'Conforming with the 12th Malaysia Plan and the MyDigital blueprint focusing on digitalisation of the public sector and the micro, small and medium enterprises, we are committed to fuel digital transformation through innovative technologies. 'As one of the market leaders of the digital-driven industry, we have continuously collaborated with the home-grown companies to expedite the transformation, which is also in tandem with the government's initiative. 'We look forward to work closely with GWI's team who shares our vision and aspiration to further innovate and digitalise our solutions to create a significant impact to the industry and the nation,' Ameer said. 

Harimau Malaya are set to play their remaining pre-World Cup/Asian Cup Group G matches on June 3-15. According to the Asian Football Confederation (AFC), Malaysia will take on the United Arab Emirates on June 3, followed by Vietnam on June 11 and Thailand four days later. The venues, however, will be announced later. The AFC had postponed the March dates due to Covid-19 concerns. After five matches, Malaysia are second with nine points in Group G, behind  Vietnam (11 points), followed by Thailand (eight), UAE (six) and Indonesia, who have yet to secure points. Skip 

KUALA LUMPUR: Johor Darul Ta'zim's (JDT) Bergson da Silva and Selangor's Ifedayo Omosuyi are now tied with 16 goals each with six rounds of Super League matches to go. Da Silva caught up with Omosuyi when he scored a hat-trick in the 5-0 thrashing of Perak at the Sultan Ibrahim Stadium on Saturday. The striker scored in the 20th, 27th and 59th minutes. Gonzalo Cabrera completed the rout with a brace in the 83rd and 86th minutes. The win over Perak was JDT's biggest margin of victory this season. With the win, JDT have opened a nine-point lead at the top of the standings over second-place Terengganu. At the City Stadium, Selangor secured a 4-1 over Penang but it was not enough to leapfrog the Panthers, who are fourth with 25 points. The Red Giants took the lead in the 16th minute through Omosuyi. Penang, however, found the equaliser in the 40th minute through David Rowley. Danial Asri scored Selangor's second goal in the 50th minute. Selangor made it three through Sean Selvaraj in the 56th minute. Omosuyi scored his second of the match in stoppage time to take his tally to 16 goals. RESULTS SUPER LEAGUE KL City 1  Melaka Utd 1,  JDT 5 Perak 0, Penang 1  Selangor 4, PREMIER LEAGUE Kelantan 0  TFC II 2,  Negri 5 Perak FC II 0 FIXTURES TOMORROW SUPER LEAGUE Terengganu v Sabah (Sultan Mizan Zainal Abidin Stadium) Sri Pahang v PJ City (Darulmakmur Stadium) PREMIER LEAGUE JDT II v Kelantan Utd (Larkin Stadium) Police v FAM-MSN (KLFA Stadium) *All matches at 9pm 

Melaka United coach Zainal Abidin Hassan has warned his charges to remain cautious despite the 1-0 win over Sabah in the first leg of the Malaysia Cup quarter-finals. Haitian striker Sony Norde was the toast of Melaka with a strike in the 52nd minute at Likas Stadium on Sunday to maintain the Mousedeer's unbeaten run in the competition. Melaka will entertain Ong Kim Swee's Sabah in the return leg at Hang Jebat Stadium on Thursday. Although delighted, Zainal warned his players not to celebrate yet. 'Sabah gave us a tough challenge, and the tie is not over yet.  'We dominated the first half but could not score. We could have won by a bigger margin,' said Zainal on Sunday. 'It is just the first half of the tie. We have another half to play at home.' 'The good thing is we won away and did not concede a goal. It offers us a slight advantage.' Melaka are seeking their first semi-final appearance since 1983. Meanwhile, Terengganu edged Sarawak United 2-1 at Sultan Mizan Zainal Abidin Stadium in Gong Badak. Terengganu scored through Faisal Halim (16th minute) and Faiz Nasir (51st).  Sarawak United are still alive in the tie thanks to Terengganu defender Shahril Nizam Ros Hasni's own goal in the 21st minute. In another match, Kedah were held to a 0-0 draw by Johor Darul Ta'zim at Darulaman Stadium in Alor Star. 

THE storm rocking Malaysian badminton is over. At least for now.   With BAM coming to a decision to lift the two-year ban on men's singles Lee Zii Jia and women's singles Goh Jin Wei, there is now light at the end of the  tunnel.   The Malaysian badminton community, especially netizens, has been  split ever since Zii Jia submitted his resignation letter to BAM earlier this month.   BAM's ban on the two shuttlers drew criticism from fans and players, locally and overseas, as many felt the punishment was too harsh.   But things are starting to cool down now and BAM are keen to put the issue behind them, and focus on rebuilding.   BAM coaching director Wong Choong Hann believes it is now time to move on after the weeks-long saga that gripped the Malaysian sports scene.    'It is time to move forward and I believe this is what people would like to see,' said Choong Hann.  'Our focus will now be to continue developing the younger players and we'll continue to assist and groom the likes of Ng Tze Yong, Leong Jun Hao, Aidil Sholeh Ali Sadikin and Lim Chong King.   'As for Zii Jia, he will continue at his own pace and he will manage his own career.   'On paper it is a challenge for us but we're not exactly starting from scratch although Zii Jia has been at the forefront for us in the past.   'Tze Yong for example has been coming along well and there are a few other youngsters who have been stepping up and are really just waiting for an opportunity.   'I believe we still have many untapped gems waiting in turn to show what they are capable of.   'And this is really a challenge for the younger players to continue to better themselves, especially through the rankings and to see if they can match up with the top players.'   Choong Hann said the women's singles department is not being neglected even though there were no women's singles from Malaysia at the India Open and Syed Modi International this month.   'We are definitely committed to developing women's singles as well.  But we're just waiting to enter them for the right competitions.  'Take S. Kisona for example, we want to enter her into a mid-tier competition where she can be competitive as well and regain her confidence along the way,' added Choong Hann.  The next major assignment for the Malaysian shuttlers will be the Asian Team Championships at Shah Alam from Feb 15-20. 

KUALA LUMPUR, June 13 — Young swimmer Khiew Hoe Yean gave another smashing display to break the men's 800 metre freestyle national and meet records at the 63rd Malaysia Open at the National Aquatic Centre here today. The 19-year-old, who was again the sole participant, clocked eight minutes and six seconds (8:06.00s) to erase Olympian Welson Sim's record of 8:09.77s set at the Victorian Open swimming championships in February 2019. The Kuala Lumpur swimmer's time also broke the meet record of 8:12.11s set by Srihari Nataraj of India in 2019 and dipped below the Olympic Selection Time (OST) of 8:08.54s, reaching very close to the Olympic Qualifying Time (OQT) of 7:54.31s. 'It was my first time swimming in the 800m freestyle event, so it is a good time and great. 'But before the swim, I was confident of going fast because I did feel good in the warm-up. To be honest, I did aim for the record before I jumped in,' he told Bernama. Hoe Yean also dipped below the OST of 1:50.23s in the men's 200m freestyle today, winning the event in 1:49.38s to beat record holder Welson (1:50.64s) and Low Zheng Yong (1:56.28s) into second and third places respectively. Yesterday, Hoe Yean broke the 23-year-old 200m backstroke national record by clocking 2:00.80s to erase former national star Alex Lim Keng Liat's previous mark of 2:00.94s. Hoe Yean has surpassed the OST in the 200m, 400m and 800m freestyle and 200m backstroke events, while Welson and Phee Jinq En made the OST cut in the men's 400m freestyle and women's 100m breaststroke respectively. Only swimmers who meet the Olympic Qualifying Time (OQT) in their respective events by June 27 are guaranteed slots at the Olympics. In the case of the men's 200m backstroke event, the OQT is 1:57.50s. Swimmers can also qualify under the OST based on universal participation, meaning a nation with no Olympic qualifier will be allowed to enter up to one male and one female swimmer for the Tokyo Games 

KUALA LUMPUR: The last-minute inclusion of midfielder Azfar Fikri Azhar for the national youth side paid off when he earned Malaysia their second win in the AFC Under-23 qualifiers in Mongolia today.    Terengganu II player Azfar was only called up less than a week - to replace an injured Ahmad Aysar Hadi Shapri of JDT II - before the team departed for Ulaanbaatar on Oct 20.   Azfar, who scored in Malaysia's 1-0 win over Laos on Monday, struck again against Mongolia at the MFF Football Centre.    He hit the winner in the 40th minute, following an assist from Terengganu II teammate, Hairiey Hakim Mamat.   Malaysia now lead Group G with six points. The 11 group winners and the four best runners-up will qualify for the AFC U-23 Asian Cup in Uzbekistan next year. 

Selangor  are getting from bad to worse day by day in the Super League. They were once the undisputed champions of Malaysian football but are now struggling against smaller teams in the M-League. On Saturday, the Red Giants failed to earn maximum points when they hosted Melaka United at the MBPJ Stadium. Karsten Neitzel's side started brightly by taking the lead through Hein Htet Aung in the 19th minute.  However, disaster struck nine minutes later. Selangor were down to 10 players when defender Ashmawi Yakin was sent off for rough play. With the team playing defensively after the red card, Melaka started to dominate proceedings. And Zainal Abidin Hassan's side was rewarded when Manuel Ott scored the equaliser in the fourth minute of stoppage time. The 1-1 draw ended their four-match winning streak in the competition. 'We started well and created a few chances before scoring a goal. But the red card affected our game,' said Neitzel on Saturday. 'In the second half, we did not do so well, although we created a few chances.' Selangor are fifth in the standings with 33 points, with two matches left to play. Melaka, meanwhile, are eighth with 18 points. They will complete their season against Perak on Friday and Kedah on Sept 12. 'It is always not easy playing against a team who have only 10 players on the pitch. Anyway, it is still good that we earned a point,' said Zainal. 'We need at least three points from our remaining two matches to secure our Super League spot for next season. 'It is a tight season as any two of the bottom six teams could get relegated. We will fight until the end to achieve our mission.' 

SELANGOR  goal poacher Ifedayo Omosuyi relishes the competition from  Johor Darul Ta'zim's new hitman Bergson da Silva in the race for the Super League's Golden Boot.   The Nigerian-born striker, who was last season's top scorer in the Super League with 12 goals, said Bergson's eight goals in six matches will spur him to step up his game.   Omosuyi, who crossed paths with Bergson in a Super League clash which ended in a 1-1 draw at Sultan Ibrahim Stadium on March 17, admitted that the 30-year-old Brazilian is one of the best strikers he has seen.   He also picked Kedah's Liberian striker Kpah Sherman, who has scored five goals, as among the candidates for the Super League's top scorer crown this season.   'Bergson seems to be a top talent and he deserves credit. He's one of the league's top strikers apart from  Kedah's Sherman,' said Omosuyi, who has five goals under his belt this season.   'When there are players who are better than me, it spurs me to work harder.  'I'll be more motivated and push harder to get the goals for my team.   'I don't think too much about defending my top scorer crown. My target is to average a goal a match and help my team win matches.'   Last season, Omosuyi emerged as the M-League Golden Boots winner with 13 goals from 12 matches.    Last week, Omosuyi plundered a hat-trick to help Selangor beat Perak 3-1 at the MBPJ Stadium last week to put himself in second place in the scorers' chart, tied with Sherman on five goals.   The 1.80m Omosuyi admitted that the Red Giants have had a slow start to  the season but they are gathering momentum.   'We are getting better from match to match, and the win against Perak shows that the team have improved compared to the loss to Kedah.' 

KUALA LUMPUR, Sept 14 — Youth and Sports Minister Datuk Seri Ahmad Faizal Azumu has not ruled out the possibility that the Olympic Council of Malaysia (OCM) may be given the responsibility to manage high-performance sports in the future. While stressing that the National Sports Council (NSC) would continue to do so at the moment, he confirmed that the matter was being discussed so as to realise the dream of achieving the country's first Olympic gold medal. 'Cooperation will be stepped up with all sports bodies, including the OCM, to achieve the country's first Olympic gold medal. It is not just the ministry's wish, but also that of all Malaysians. 'To achieve that, we need to give OCM a bigger role so that we have a better chance. So, the ministry and the NSC will find a way to share our athletes' management and training as well as which sports to focus on,' he told a media conference after visiting Wisma OCM here today. He also sought the assistance of all national sports associations (NSAs) to prioritise sports development and to avoid divisions among the leadership of the associations. He had earlier held a discussion lasting over an hour with the new OCM executive board which met for the first time today, before visiting the OCM Hall of Fame and gallery. Ahmad Faizal was also given an introduction regarding the OCM, its charter, the Olympic charter and other matters related to sports events. He also shared the government's views and aspirations with the national sports body during his visit. Meanwhile, OCM secretary-general Datuk Mohd Nazifuddin Najib clarified that the council's goal to manage high-performance sports that will be contested at the 2024 Paris Olympics and the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics were among the issues discussed with Ahmad Faizal. According to Mohd Nazifuddin, the OCM could plan better and play a bigger role in championing sports such as squash and bowling to be included in the Olympic Games programme as it had good relations at the international stage, including with the International Olympic Council (IOC). 'We will look at every sport in the Olympic programme and plan ahead. For example, in an Olympic cycle, we will plan for all the sports that stand a chance, including new sports like breakdancing and surfing. We will adopt an overall view beyond just the sports that usually contribute medals like badminton, cycling and diving. 'On a policy level, we are in the midst of discussion, regarding capability and funding, we will fine-tune later if we are allowed (to take over),' he said, adding that the NSC would remain responsible for managing athletes for the Asian Games, Commonwealth Games and grassroots programmes. 

